content/connectors/database/pinotdb/yaml.md, before:

---
title: Run the PinotDB Connector Externally
slug: /connectors/database/pinotdb/yaml
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="PinotDB"
stage="PROD"
platform="OpenMetadata"
availableFeatures=["Metadata", "Data Profiler", "Data Quality", "dbt", "View Lineage", "View Column-level Lineage", "Sample Data", "Auto-Classification"]
unavailableFeatures=["Query Usage", "Owners", "Tags", "Stored Procedures"]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the PinotDB connector.

Configure and schedule PinotDB metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Lineage](#lineage)
- [Data Profiler](#data-profiler)
- [Data Quality](#data-quality)
- [dbt Integration](#dbt-integration)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/external-ingestion-deployment.md" /%}

## Requirements

### Python Requirements

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/python-requirements.md" /%}

To run the PinotDB ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[pinotdb]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/pinotDBConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to PinotDB.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for PinotDB:

{% codePreview %}

{% codeInfoContainer %}

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

{% codeInfo srNumber=1 %}

**username**: Specify the User to connect to PinotDB. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=2 %}

**password**: Password to connect to PinotDB.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=3 %}

**Host and Port**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your PinotDB deployment in the Host and Port field.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=4 %}

**databaseSchema**: databaseSchema of the data source. This is optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single databaseSchema. When left blank, OpenMetadata Ingestion attempts to scan all the databaseSchema.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config-def.md" /%}

#### Advanced Configuration

{% codeInfo srNumber=5 %}

**Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=6 %}

**Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

- In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`

{% /codeInfo %}

{% /codeInfoContainer %}

{% codeBlock fileName="filename.yaml" %}

```yaml {% isCodeBlock=true %}
source:
  type: pinotdb
  serviceName: <service name>
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: PinotDB
```
```yaml {% srNumber=1 %}
      username: <username>
```
```yaml {% srNumber=2 %}
      password: <password>
```
```yaml {% srNumber=3 %}
      hostPort: <hostPort>
```
```yaml {% srNumber=4 %}
      databaseSchema: schema
```
```yaml {% srNumber=5 %}
      # connectionOptions:
      #   key: value
```
```yaml {% srNumber=6 %}
      # connectionArguments:
      #   key: value
```

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config.md" /%}

{% /codeBlock %}

{% /codePreview %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-cli.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/lineage.md" variables={connector: "pinotdb"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-profiler.md" variables={connector: "pinotdb"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/auto-classification.md" variables={connector: "pinotdb"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-quality.md" /%}

## dbt Integration

{% tilesContainer %}

{% tile
  icon="mediation"
  title="dbt Integration"
  description="Learn more about how to ingest dbt models' definitions and their lineage."
  link="/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt" /%}

{% /tilesContainer %}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/a91a4e59089401ca13a362eb2111787807da9814 from refs/heads/main

content/connectors/database/pinotdb/yaml.md, after:

---
title: Run the PinotDB Connector Externally
description: Configure Pinot ingestion using YAML to extract metadata and schema from real-time OLAP data sources.
slug: /connectors/database/pinotdb/yaml
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="PinotDB"
stage="PROD"
platform="OpenMetadata"
availableFeatures=["Metadata", "Data Profiler", "Data Quality", "dbt", "View Lineage", "View Column-level Lineage", "Sample Data", "Auto-Classification"]
unavailableFeatures=["Query Usage", "Owners", "Tags", "Stored Procedures"]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the PinotDB connector.

Configure and schedule PinotDB metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Lineage](#lineage)
- [Data Profiler](#data-profiler)
- [Data Quality](#data-quality)
- [dbt Integration](#dbt-integration)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/external-ingestion-deployment.md" /%}

## Requirements

### Python Requirements

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/python-requirements.md" /%}

To run the PinotDB ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[pinotdb]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/pinotDBConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to PinotDB.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for PinotDB:

{% codePreview %}

{% codeInfoContainer %}

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

{% codeInfo srNumber=1 %}

**username**: Specify the User to connect to PinotDB. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=2 %}

**password**: Password to connect to PinotDB.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=3 %}

**Host and Port**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your PinotDB deployment in the Host and Port field.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=4 %}

**databaseSchema**: databaseSchema of the data source. This is optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single databaseSchema. When left blank, OpenMetadata Ingestion attempts to scan all the databaseSchema.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config-def.md" /%}

#### Advanced Configuration

{% codeInfo srNumber=5 %}

**Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=6 %}

**Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

- In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`

{% /codeInfo %}

{% /codeInfoContainer %}

{% codeBlock fileName="filename.yaml" %}

```yaml {% isCodeBlock=true %}
source:
  type: pinotdb
  serviceName: <service name>
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: PinotDB
```
```yaml {% srNumber=1 %}
      username: <username>
```
```yaml {% srNumber=2 %}
      password: <password>
```
```yaml {% srNumber=3 %}
      hostPort: <hostPort>
```
```yaml {% srNumber=4 %}
      databaseSchema: schema
```
```yaml {% srNumber=5 %}
      # connectionOptions:
      #   key: value
```
```yaml {% srNumber=6 %}
      # connectionArguments:
      #   key: value
```

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config.md" /%}

{% /codeBlock %}

{% /codePreview %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-cli.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/lineage.md" variables={connector: "pinotdb"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-profiler.md" variables={connector: "pinotdb"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/auto-classification.md" variables={connector: "pinotdb"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-quality.md" /%}

## dbt Integration

{% tilesContainer %}

{% tile
  icon="mediation"
  title="dbt Integration"
  description="Learn more about how to ingest dbt models' definitions and their lineage."
  link="/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt" /%}

{% /tilesContainer %}
