content/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/ingest-dbt-tier.md, before:

---
title: Ingest Tiers from dbt | OpenMetadata Data Tiering Guide
slug: /connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/ingest-dbt-tier
---

# Ingest Tiers from dbt

Ingest the table-level tier from `manifest.json` file

## Requirements

{% note %}

For dbt Tier, Tiers must be created or present in OpenMetadata beforehand for data ingestion to work.

{% /note %}

## Steps for ingesting dbt Tier

### 1. Add a Tier at OpenMetadata or Select a Tier 
Tiering is an important concept of data classification in OpenMetadata. Tiers should be based on the importance of data. Using Tiers, data producers or owners can define the importance of data to an organization.

For details on adding or selecting tiers, refer to the [OpenMetadata documentation](https://docs.open-metadata.org/v1.3.x/how-to-guides/data-governance/classification/tiers#what-are-tiers)


### 2. Add Table-Level Tier information in schema.yml file
Suppose you want to add the Tier `Tier2` to a table model `customers`.

Go to your schema.yml file at dbt containing the table model information `customers` and add the tier FQN under `model->name->meta->openmetadata->tier` as `Tier.Tier2`.

For more details on dbt meta field follow the link [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/meta)

```yml
models:
  - name: customers
    meta: 
      openmetadata:
        tier: 'Tier.Tier2'

    description: This table has basic information about a customer, as well as some derived facts based on a customer's orders

    columns:
      - name: customer_id
        description: This is a unique identifier for a customer
        tests:
          - unique
          - not_null
```


After adding the tier information to your `schema.yml` file, run your dbt workflow. The generated `manifest.json` file will then reflect the tier assignment. You'll find it under `node_name->config->meta->openmetadata->tier` as `Tier.Tier2`.

```json
"model.jaffle_shop.customers": {
  "raw_sql": "sample_raw_sql",
  "compiled": true,
  "resource_type": "model",
  "depends_on": {},
  "database": "dev",
  "schema": "dbt_jaffle",
  "config": {
      "enabled": true,
      "alias": null,
      "meta": {
          "openmetadata": {
              "tier": "Tier.Tier2"
          }
      }
  }
}
```

### 3. Viewing the Tier on tables
Table level Tier ingested from dbt can be viewed on the node in OpenMetadata

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8//features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/dbt-features/dbt-tier.png"
  alt="dbt_tier"
  caption="dbt Tier"
 /%}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/685fa91935b5fec46f3149bf84f9893486e33fb8 from refs/heads/main

content/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/ingest-dbt-tier.md, after:

---
title: Ingest Tiers from dbt | OpenMetadata Data Tiering Guide
description: Ingest dbt tier metadata to support quality scoring and classification for critical datasets and models.
slug: /connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/ingest-dbt-tier
---

# Ingest Tiers from dbt

Ingest the table-level tier from `manifest.json` file

## Requirements

{% note %}

For dbt Tier, Tiers must be created or present in OpenMetadata beforehand for data ingestion to work.

{% /note %}

## Steps for ingesting dbt Tier

### 1. Add a Tier at OpenMetadata or Select a Tier 
Tiering is an important concept of data classification in OpenMetadata. Tiers should be based on the importance of data. Using Tiers, data producers or owners can define the importance of data to an organization.

For details on adding or selecting tiers, refer to the [OpenMetadata documentation](https://docs.open-metadata.org/v1.3.x/how-to-guides/data-governance/classification/tiers#what-are-tiers)


### 2. Add Table-Level Tier information in schema.yml file
Suppose you want to add the Tier `Tier2` to a table model `customers`.

Go to your schema.yml file at dbt containing the table model information `customers` and add the tier FQN under `model->name->meta->openmetadata->tier` as `Tier.Tier2`.

For more details on dbt meta field follow the link [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/meta)

```yml
models:
  - name: customers
    meta: 
      openmetadata:
        tier: 'Tier.Tier2'

    description: This table has basic information about a customer, as well as some derived facts based on a customer's orders

    columns:
      - name: customer_id
        description: This is a unique identifier for a customer
        tests:
          - unique
          - not_null
```


After adding the tier information to your `schema.yml` file, run your dbt workflow. The generated `manifest.json` file will then reflect the tier assignment. You'll find it under `node_name->config->meta->openmetadata->tier` as `Tier.Tier2`.

```json
"model.jaffle_shop.customers": {
  "raw_sql": "sample_raw_sql",
  "compiled": true,
  "resource_type": "model",
  "depends_on": {},
  "database": "dev",
  "schema": "dbt_jaffle",
  "config": {
      "enabled": true,
      "alias": null,
      "meta": {
          "openmetadata": {
              "tier": "Tier.Tier2"
          }
      }
  }
}
```

### 3. Viewing the Tier on tables
Table level Tier ingested from dbt can be viewed on the node in OpenMetadata

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8//features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/dbt-features/dbt-tier.png"
  alt="dbt_tier"
  caption="dbt Tier"
 /%}
