content/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/ingest-dbt-ui.md, before:

---
title: Configure dbt workflow from OpenMetadata UI
slug: /connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/configure-dbt-workflow-from-ui
---

# Configure dbt workflow from OpenMetadata UI
Learn how to configure the dbt workflow from the UI to ingest dbt data from your data sources.

{% note %}

- OpenMetadata supports both **dbt Core** and **dbt Cloud** for databases. After metadata ingestion, OpenMetadata extracts model information from dbt and integrates it accordingly.  
- Additionally, **dbt Cloud** supports executing models directly. OpenMetadata enables ingestion of these executions as a **Pipeline Service** for enhanced tracking and visibility.

{% /note %}

## UI Configuration

Once the metadata ingestion runs correctly and we are able to explore the service Entities, we can add the dbt information.

This will populate the dbt tab from the Table Entity Page.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/dbt-features/dbt-query.webp"
  alt="dbt"
  caption="dbt"
 /%}


We can create a workflow that will obtain the dbt information from the dbt files and feed it to OpenMetadata. The dbt Ingestion will be in charge of obtaining this data.

### 1. Add a dbt Ingestion

From the Service Page, go to the Ingestions tab to add a new ingestion and click on Add dbt Ingestion.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/add-ingestion.webp"
  alt="add-ingestion"
  caption="Add dbt Ingestion"
 /%}


### 2. Configure the dbt Ingestion

Here you can enter the configuration required for OpenMetadata to get the dbt files (manifest.json, catalog.json and run_results.json) required to extract the dbt metadata.
Select any one of the source from below from where the dbt files can be fetched:

{% note %}

Only the `manifest.json` file is compulsory for dbt ingestion.

{% /note %}


#### 1. AWS S3 Buckets

OpenMetadata connects to the AWS s3 bucket via the credentials provided and scans the AWS s3 buckets for `manifest.json`, `catalog.json` and `run_results.json` files.

The name of the s3 bucket and prefix path to the folder in which the dbt files are stored can be provided. In the case where these parameters are not provided all the buckets are scanned for the files.

Follow the link [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/setup-multiple-dbt-projects) for instructions on setting up multiple dbt projects.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/aws-s3.webp"
  alt="aws-s3-bucket"
  caption="AWS S3 Bucket Config"
 /%}


#### 2. Google Cloud Storage Buckets

OpenMetadata connects to the GCS bucket via the credentials provided and scans the gcp buckets for `manifest.json`, `catalog.json` and `run_results.json` files.

The name of the GCS bucket and prefix path to the folder in which the dbt files are stored can be provided. In the case where these parameters are not provided all the buckets are scanned for the files.

GCS credentials can be stored in two ways:

**1.** Entering the credentials directly into the form

Follow the link [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/setup-multiple-dbt-projects) for instructions on setting up multiple dbt projects.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/gcp-bucket-form.webp"
  alt="gcp-storage-bucket-form"
  caption="GCS Bucket config"
 /%}


**2.** Entering the path of file in which the GCS bucket credentials are stored.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/gcp-bucket-path.webp"
  alt="gcp-storage-bucket-path"
  caption="GCS Bucket Path Config"
 /%}


For more information on Google Cloud Storage authentication click [here](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started#create-service-account-console).

#### 3. Azure Storage Buckets

OpenMetadata connects to the Azure Storage service via the credentials provided and scans the AWS s3 buckets for `manifest.json`, `catalog.json` and `run_results.json` files.

The name of the s3 bucket and prefix path to the folder in which the dbt files are stored can be provided. In the case where these parameters are not provided all the buckets are scanned for the files.

Follow the link [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/setup-multiple-dbt-projects) for instructions on setting up multiple dbt projects.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/azure-config.webp"
  alt="azure-bucket"
  caption="Azure Storage Config"
 /%}

#### 4. Local Storage

Path of the `manifest.json`, `catalog.json` and `run_results.json` files stored in the local system or in the container in which openmetadata server is running can be directly provided.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/local-storage.webp"
  alt="local-storage"
  caption="Local Storage Config"
 /%}

#### 5. File Server

File server path of the `manifest.json`, `catalog.json` and `run_results.json` files stored on a file server directly provided.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/file_server.webp"
  alt="file-server"
  caption="File Server Config"
 /%}


#### 6. dbt Cloud

Click on the the link [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/getting-started) for getting started with dbt cloud account setup if not done already.
The APIs need to be authenticated using an Authentication Token. Follow the link [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens) to generate an authentication token for your dbt cloud account.

The `Account Viewer` permission is the minimum requirement for the dbt cloud token.

{% note %}

The dbt Cloud workflow leverages the [dbt Cloud v2](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v2#/) APIs to retrieve dbt run artifacts (manifest.json, catalog.json, and run_results.json) and ingest the dbt metadata.

It uses the [/runs](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v2#/operations/List%20Runs) API to obtain the most recent successful dbt run, filtering by account_id, project_id and job_id if specified. The artifacts from this run are then collected using the [/artifacts](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v2#/operations/List%20Run%20Artifacts) API.

Refer to the code [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/ingestion/src/metadata/ingestion/source/database/dbt/dbt_config.py#L142)

{% /note %}

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/dbt-cloud.webp"
  alt="dbt-cloud"
  caption="dbt Cloud config"
 /%}

{% note %}

The fields for `Dbt Cloud Account Id`, `Dbt Cloud Project Id` and `Dbt Cloud Job Id` should be numeric values.

To know how to get the values for `Dbt Cloud Account Id`, `Dbt Cloud Project Id` and `Dbt Cloud Job Id` fields check [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/run-dbt-workflow-externally).

{% /note %}



### 3. Schedule and Deploy
After clicking Next, you will be redirected to the Scheduling form. This will be the same as the Metadata Ingestion. Select your desired schedule and click on Deploy to find the lineage pipeline being added to the Service Ingestions.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/schedule-and-deploy.webp"
  alt="schedule-and-deploy"
  caption="Schedule dbt ingestion pipeline"
 /%}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/9ad9c9e89ea32780505b8227a19295f8df8f81b6 from refs/heads/main

content/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/ingest-dbt-ui.md, after:

---
title: Configure dbt workflow from OpenMetadata UI
description: Learn to configure dbt workflows in OpenMetadata's UI with our step-by-step guide. Streamline data lineage, documentation, and metadata management effortlessly.
slug: /connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/configure-dbt-workflow-from-ui
---

# Configure dbt workflow from OpenMetadata UI
Learn how to configure the dbt workflow from the UI to ingest dbt data from your data sources.

{% note %}

- OpenMetadata supports both **dbt Core** and **dbt Cloud** for databases. After metadata ingestion, OpenMetadata extracts model information from dbt and integrates it accordingly.  
- Additionally, **dbt Cloud** supports executing models directly. OpenMetadata enables ingestion of these executions as a **Pipeline Service** for enhanced tracking and visibility.

{% /note %}

## UI Configuration

Once the metadata ingestion runs correctly and we are able to explore the service Entities, we can add the dbt information.

This will populate the dbt tab from the Table Entity Page.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/dbt-features/dbt-query.webp"
  alt="dbt"
  caption="dbt"
 /%}


We can create a workflow that will obtain the dbt information from the dbt files and feed it to OpenMetadata. The dbt Ingestion will be in charge of obtaining this data.

### 1. Add a dbt Ingestion

From the Service Page, go to the Ingestions tab to add a new ingestion and click on Add dbt Ingestion.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/add-ingestion.webp"
  alt="add-ingestion"
  caption="Add dbt Ingestion"
 /%}


### 2. Configure the dbt Ingestion

Here you can enter the configuration required for OpenMetadata to get the dbt files (manifest.json, catalog.json and run_results.json) required to extract the dbt metadata.
Select any one of the source from below from where the dbt files can be fetched:

{% note %}

Only the `manifest.json` file is compulsory for dbt ingestion.

{% /note %}


#### 1. AWS S3 Buckets

OpenMetadata connects to the AWS s3 bucket via the credentials provided and scans the AWS s3 buckets for `manifest.json`, `catalog.json` and `run_results.json` files.

The name of the s3 bucket and prefix path to the folder in which the dbt files are stored can be provided. In the case where these parameters are not provided all the buckets are scanned for the files.

Follow the link [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/setup-multiple-dbt-projects) for instructions on setting up multiple dbt projects.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/aws-s3.webp"
  alt="aws-s3-bucket"
  caption="AWS S3 Bucket Config"
 /%}


#### 2. Google Cloud Storage Buckets

OpenMetadata connects to the GCS bucket via the credentials provided and scans the gcp buckets for `manifest.json`, `catalog.json` and `run_results.json` files.

The name of the GCS bucket and prefix path to the folder in which the dbt files are stored can be provided. In the case where these parameters are not provided all the buckets are scanned for the files.

GCS credentials can be stored in two ways:

**1.** Entering the credentials directly into the form

Follow the link [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/setup-multiple-dbt-projects) for instructions on setting up multiple dbt projects.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/gcp-bucket-form.webp"
  alt="gcp-storage-bucket-form"
  caption="GCS Bucket config"
 /%}


**2.** Entering the path of file in which the GCS bucket credentials are stored.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/gcp-bucket-path.webp"
  alt="gcp-storage-bucket-path"
  caption="GCS Bucket Path Config"
 /%}


For more information on Google Cloud Storage authentication click [here](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started#create-service-account-console).

#### 3. Azure Storage Buckets

OpenMetadata connects to the Azure Storage service via the credentials provided and scans the AWS s3 buckets for `manifest.json`, `catalog.json` and `run_results.json` files.

The name of the s3 bucket and prefix path to the folder in which the dbt files are stored can be provided. In the case where these parameters are not provided all the buckets are scanned for the files.

Follow the link [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/setup-multiple-dbt-projects) for instructions on setting up multiple dbt projects.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/azure-config.webp"
  alt="azure-bucket"
  caption="Azure Storage Config"
 /%}

#### 4. Local Storage

Path of the `manifest.json`, `catalog.json` and `run_results.json` files stored in the local system or in the container in which openmetadata server is running can be directly provided.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/local-storage.webp"
  alt="local-storage"
  caption="Local Storage Config"
 /%}

#### 5. File Server

File server path of the `manifest.json`, `catalog.json` and `run_results.json` files stored on a file server directly provided.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/file_server.webp"
  alt="file-server"
  caption="File Server Config"
 /%}


#### 6. dbt Cloud

Click on the the link [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/getting-started) for getting started with dbt cloud account setup if not done already.
The APIs need to be authenticated using an Authentication Token. Follow the link [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens) to generate an authentication token for your dbt cloud account.

The `Account Viewer` permission is the minimum requirement for the dbt cloud token.

{% note %}

The dbt Cloud workflow leverages the [dbt Cloud v2](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v2#/) APIs to retrieve dbt run artifacts (manifest.json, catalog.json, and run_results.json) and ingest the dbt metadata.

It uses the [/runs](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v2#/operations/List%20Runs) API to obtain the most recent successful dbt run, filtering by account_id, project_id and job_id if specified. The artifacts from this run are then collected using the [/artifacts](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v2#/operations/List%20Run%20Artifacts) API.

Refer to the code [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/ingestion/src/metadata/ingestion/source/database/dbt/dbt_config.py#L142)

{% /note %}

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/dbt-cloud.webp"
  alt="dbt-cloud"
  caption="dbt Cloud config"
 /%}

{% note %}

The fields for `Dbt Cloud Account Id`, `Dbt Cloud Project Id` and `Dbt Cloud Job Id` should be numeric values.

To know how to get the values for `Dbt Cloud Account Id`, `Dbt Cloud Project Id` and `Dbt Cloud Job Id` fields check [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/run-dbt-workflow-externally).

{% /note %}



### 3. Schedule and Deploy
After clicking Next, you will be redirected to the Scheduling form. This will be the same as the Metadata Ingestion. Select your desired schedule and click on Deploy to find the lineage pipeline being added to the Service Ingestions.

{% image
  src="/images/v1.8/features/ingestion/workflows/dbt/schedule-and-deploy.webp"
  alt="schedule-and-deploy"
  caption="Schedule dbt ingestion pipeline"
 /%}
