content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/index.md, before:

---
title: External Automator Config | OpenMetadata Entity Applications
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator
---

# Automator

This folder contains the following items:

- [**AddOwnerAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/addowneraction)
- [**AddDomainAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/adddomainaction)
- [**AddTagsAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/addtagsaction)
- [**RemoveCustomPropertiesAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removecustompropertiesaction)
- [**RemoveDescriptionAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removedescriptionaction)
- [**MlTaggingAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/mltaggingaction)
- [**LineagePropagationAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/lineagepropagationaction)
- [**RemoveTagsAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removetagsaction)
- [**RemoveTierAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removetieraction)
- [**AddDescriptionAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/adddescriptionaction)
- [**AddCustomProperties**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/addcustomproperties)
- [**RemoveOwnerAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removeowneraction)
- [**RemoveDomainAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removedomainaction)
- [**AddTierAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/addtieraction)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/4c0b4582f938a644b3550a73b161f39c1e02f0b9 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/index.md, after:

---
title: External Automator Config | OpenMetadata Entity Applications
description: Schema for Automator service integration to enable workflow automation and metadata change triggers.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator
---

# Automator

This folder contains the following items:

- [**AddOwnerAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/addowneraction)
- [**AddDomainAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/adddomainaction)
- [**AddTagsAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/addtagsaction)
- [**RemoveCustomPropertiesAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removecustompropertiesaction)
- [**RemoveDescriptionAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removedescriptionaction)
- [**MlTaggingAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/mltaggingaction)
- [**LineagePropagationAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/lineagepropagationaction)
- [**RemoveTagsAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removetagsaction)
- [**RemoveTierAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removetieraction)
- [**AddDescriptionAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/adddescriptionaction)
- [**AddCustomProperties**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/addcustomproperties)
- [**RemoveOwnerAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removeowneraction)
- [**RemoveDomainAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/removedomainaction)
- [**AddTierAction**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/applications/configuration/external/automator/addtieraction)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
