content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/teams/persona.md, before:

---
title: persona
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/teams/persona
---

# Persona

*This schema defines the Persona entity. A `Persona` is a job function associated with a user. An Example, Data Engineer or Data Consumer is a Persona of a user in Metadata world.*

## Properties

- **`id`**: Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid*.
- **`name`**: A unique name of Persona. Example 'data engineer'. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName*.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`**: FullyQualifiedName same as `name`. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Name used for display purposes. Example 'Data Steward'.
- **`description`**: Description of the persona. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown*.
- **`updatedAt`**: Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp*.
- **`updatedBy`** *(string)*: User who made the update.
- **`href`**: Link to the resource corresponding to this entity. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href*.
- **`users`**: Users that are assigned a persona. Refer to *../../type/entityReferenceList.json*. Default: `None`.
- **`version`**: Metadata version of the entity. Refer to *../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion*.
- **`changeDescription`**: Change that lead to this version of the entity. Refer to *../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription*.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2023-10-27 13:55:46.343512.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/69342d47838a179580eb88704684a4ab351ea8a7 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/teams/persona.md, after:

---
title: persona
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/teams/persona
---

# Persona

*This schema defines the Persona entity. A `Persona` is a job function associated with a user. An Example, Data Engineer or Data Consumer is a Persona of a user in Metadata world.*

## Properties

- **`id`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`name`**: A unique name of Persona. Example 'data engineer'. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName)*.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`**: FullyQualifiedName same as `name`. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName)*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Name used for display purposes. Example 'Data Steward'.
- **`description`**: Description of the persona. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown)*.
- **`updatedAt`**: Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.
- **`updatedBy`** *(string)*: User who made the update.
- **`href`**: Link to the resource corresponding to this entity. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/href)*.
- **`uiCustomization`**: Reference to the UI customization configuration. Refer to *[../../type/entityReference.json](#/../type/entityReference.json)*.
- **`users`**: Users that are assigned a persona. Refer to *[../../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/../type/entityReferenceList.json)*. Default: `null`.
- **`version`**: Metadata version of the entity. Refer to *[../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](#/../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion)*.
- **`changeDescription`**: Change that lead to this version of the entity. Refer to *[../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](#/../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription)*.
- **`domain`**: Domain the asset belongs to. When not set, the asset inherits the domain from the parent it belongs to. Refer to *[../../type/entityReference.json](#/../type/entityReference.json)*.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:25.266839+00:00.
