content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/teams/role.md, before:

---
title: role
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/teams/role
---

# Role

*A `Role` is a collection of `Policies` that provides access control. A user or a team can be assigned one or multiple roles that provide privileges to a user and members of a team to perform the job function.*

## Properties

- **`id`**: Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid*.
- **`name`**: Refer to *#/definitions/roleName*.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`**: FullyQualifiedName same as `name`. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Name used for display purposes. Example 'Data Consumer'.
- **`description`**: Description of the role. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown*.
- **`version`**: Metadata version of the entity. Refer to *../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion*.
- **`updatedAt`**: Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp*.
- **`updatedBy`** *(string)*: User who made the update.
- **`href`**: Link to the resource corresponding to this entity. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href*.
- **`changeDescription`**: Change that lead to this version of the entity. Refer to *../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription*.
- **`allowDelete`** *(boolean)*: Some system roles can't be deleted.
- **`allowEdit`** *(boolean)*: Some system roles can't be edited.
- **`deleted`** *(boolean)*: When `true` indicates the entity has been soft deleted. Default: `False`.
- **`policies`**: Policies that is attached to this role. Refer to *../../type/entityReferenceList.json*.
- **`users`**: Users that have this role assigned to them. Refer to *../../type/entityReferenceList.json*.
- **`teams`**: Teams that have this role assigned to them. Refer to *../../type/entityReferenceList.json*.
- **`provider`**: Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/providerType*.
- **`disabled`** *(boolean)*: System policy can't be deleted. Use this flag to disable them.
## Definitions

- **`roleName`**: A unique name for the role. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName*.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2023-10-27 13:55:46.343512.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/69342d47838a179580eb88704684a4ab351ea8a7 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/teams/role.md, after:

---
title: role
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/teams/role
---

# Role

*A `Role` is a collection of `Policies` that provides access control. A user or a team can be assigned one or multiple roles that provide privileges to a user and members of a team to perform the job function.*

## Properties

- **`id`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`name`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName)*.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`**: FullyQualifiedName same as `name`. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName)*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Name used for display purposes. Example 'Data Consumer'.
- **`description`**: Description of the role. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown)*.
- **`version`**: Metadata version of the entity. Refer to *[../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](#/../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion)*.
- **`updatedAt`**: Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.
- **`updatedBy`** *(string)*: User who made the update.
- **`href`**: Link to the resource corresponding to this entity. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/href)*.
- **`changeDescription`**: Change that lead to this version of the entity. Refer to *[../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](#/../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription)*.
- **`allowDelete`** *(boolean)*: Some system roles can't be deleted.
- **`allowEdit`** *(boolean)*: Some system roles can't be edited.
- **`deleted`** *(boolean)*: When `true` indicates the entity has been soft deleted. Default: `false`.
- **`policies`**: Policies that is attached to this role. Refer to *[../../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/../type/entityReferenceList.json)*.
- **`users`**: Users that have this role assigned to them. Refer to *[../../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/../type/entityReferenceList.json)*.
- **`teams`**: Teams that have this role assigned to them. Refer to *[../../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/../type/entityReferenceList.json)*.
- **`provider`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/providerType](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/providerType)*.
- **`disabled`** *(boolean)*: System policy can't be deleted. Use this flag to disable them.
- **`domain`**: Domain the asset belongs to. When not set, the asset inherits the domain from the parent it belongs to. Refer to *[../../type/entityReference.json](#/../type/entityReference.json)*.
## Definitions



Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:25.266839+00:00.
