content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/classification/tag.md, before:

---
title: Tag Schema | OpenMetadata Tag Schema and Management API
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/classification/tag
---

# Tag

*A `Tag` entity is used for classification or categorization. It is a term defined under `Classification` entity. Tags are used to label the entities and entity fields, such as Tables, and Columns.*

## Properties

- **`id`**: Unique identifier of this entity instance. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`name`**: Name of the tag. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName)*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Display Name that identifies this tag.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`** *(string)*: Unique name of the tag of format `Classification.tag1.tag2`.
- **`description`**: Description of the tag. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown)*.
- **`style`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/style](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/style)*.
- **`classification`**: Reference to the classification that this tag is part of. Refer to *[../../type/entityReference.json](#/../type/entityReference.json)*.
- **`parent`**: Reference to the parent tag. When null, the term is at the root of the Classification. Refer to *[../../type/entityReference.json](#/../type/entityReference.json)*.
- **`children`**: Children tags under this tag. Refer to *[../../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/../type/entityReferenceList.json)*.
- **`version`**: Metadata version of the entity. Refer to *[../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](#/../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion)*.
- **`updatedAt`**: Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.
- **`updatedBy`** *(string)*: User who made the update.
- **`href`**: Link to the resource corresponding to the tag. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/href)*.
- **`usageCount`** *(integer)*: Count of how many times this tag and children tags are used.
- **`deprecated`** *(boolean)*: If the tag is deprecated. Default: `false`.
- **`deleted`** *(boolean)*: When `true` indicates the entity has been soft deleted. Default: `false`.
- **`changeDescription`**: Change that lead to this version of the entity. Refer to *[../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](#/../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription)*.
- **`provider`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/providerType](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/providerType)*.
- **`disabled`** *(boolean)*: System tags can't be deleted. Use this flag to disable them. Default: `false`.
- **`mutuallyExclusive`** *(boolean)*: Children tags under this group are mutually exclusive. When mutually exclusive is `true` the tags from this group are used to **classify** an entity. An entity can only be in one class - example, it can only be either `tier1` or `tier2` and not both. When mutually exclusive is `false`, the tags from this group are used to **categorize** an entity. An entity can be in multiple categories simultaneously - example a customer can be `newCustomer` and `atRisk` simultaneously. Default: `"false"`.
- **`domain`**: Domain the asset belongs to. When not set, the asset inherits the domain from the parent it belongs to. Refer to *[../../type/entityReference.json](#/../type/entityReference.json)*.
- **`dataProducts`**: List of data products this entity is part of. Refer to *[../../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/../type/entityReferenceList.json)*.
## Definitions



Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/d4728d13f5a78e45ca1d97635f6821be217735a7 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/classification/tag.md, after:

---
title: Tag Schema | OpenMetadata Tag Schema and Management API
description: Model tags for classifying and labeling metadata with semantic meaning and governance controls.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/classification/tag
---

# Tag

*A `Tag` entity is used for classification or categorization. It is a term defined under `Classification` entity. Tags are used to label the entities and entity fields, such as Tables, and Columns.*

## Properties

- **`id`**: Unique identifier of this entity instance. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`name`**: Name of the tag. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName)*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Display Name that identifies this tag.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`** *(string)*: Unique name of the tag of format `Classification.tag1.tag2`.
- **`description`**: Description of the tag. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown)*.
- **`style`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/style](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/style)*.
- **`classification`**: Reference to the classification that this tag is part of. Refer to *[../../type/entityReference.json](#/../type/entityReference.json)*.
- **`parent`**: Reference to the parent tag. When null, the term is at the root of the Classification. Refer to *[../../type/entityReference.json](#/../type/entityReference.json)*.
- **`children`**: Children tags under this tag. Refer to *[../../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/../type/entityReferenceList.json)*.
- **`version`**: Metadata version of the entity. Refer to *[../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](#/../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion)*.
- **`updatedAt`**: Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.
- **`updatedBy`** *(string)*: User who made the update.
- **`href`**: Link to the resource corresponding to the tag. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/href)*.
- **`usageCount`** *(integer)*: Count of how many times this tag and children tags are used.
- **`deprecated`** *(boolean)*: If the tag is deprecated. Default: `false`.
- **`deleted`** *(boolean)*: When `true` indicates the entity has been soft deleted. Default: `false`.
- **`changeDescription`**: Change that lead to this version of the entity. Refer to *[../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](#/../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription)*.
- **`provider`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/providerType](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/providerType)*.
- **`disabled`** *(boolean)*: System tags can't be deleted. Use this flag to disable them. Default: `false`.
- **`mutuallyExclusive`** *(boolean)*: Children tags under this group are mutually exclusive. When mutually exclusive is `true` the tags from this group are used to **classify** an entity. An entity can only be in one class - example, it can only be either `tier1` or `tier2` and not both. When mutually exclusive is `false`, the tags from this group are used to **categorize** an entity. An entity can be in multiple categories simultaneously - example a customer can be `newCustomer` and `atRisk` simultaneously. Default: `"false"`.
- **`domain`**: Domain the asset belongs to. When not set, the asset inherits the domain from the parent it belongs to. Refer to *[../../type/entityReference.json](#/../type/entityReference.json)*.
- **`dataProducts`**: List of data products this entity is part of. Refer to *[../../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/../type/entityReferenceList.json)*.
## Definitions



Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
