content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/docStore/createDocument.md, before:

---
title: Create Document API | OpenMetadata Document API
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/docstore/createdocument
---

# CreateDocumentRequest

*This schema defines Document. A Generic entity to capture any kind of Json Payload.*

## Properties

- **`name`**: Name of the DocStore. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName)*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Display Name that identifies this column name.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName)*.
- **`description`** *(string)*: Description of the DocStore Entity.
- **`entityType`** *(string)*: Type of the Entity stored in DocStore.
- **`data`**: Refer to *[../../entity/docStore/document.json#/definitions/data](#/../entity/docStore/document.json#/definitions/data)*.
- **`domain`** *(string)*: Fully qualified name of the domain the Table belongs to.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/b3471d5ace801a18acee9cb1c0d2465f0afaf5e5 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/docStore/createDocument.md, after:

---
title: Create Document API | OpenMetadata Document API
description: Create a document entity in the doc store with title, content, owner, and associated metadata.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/docstore/createdocument
---

# CreateDocumentRequest

*This schema defines Document. A Generic entity to capture any kind of Json Payload.*

## Properties

- **`name`**: Name of the DocStore. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName)*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Display Name that identifies this column name.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName)*.
- **`description`** *(string)*: Description of the DocStore Entity.
- **`entityType`** *(string)*: Type of the Entity stored in DocStore.
- **`data`**: Refer to *[../../entity/docStore/document.json#/definitions/data](#/../entity/docStore/document.json#/definitions/data)*.
- **`domain`** *(string)*: Fully qualified name of the domain the Table belongs to.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
