content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/index.md, before:

---
title: API Schemas Index | OpenMetadata API Schema Overview
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api
---

# Api

This folder contains the following items:

- [**Classification**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/classification)
- [**Domains**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/domains)
- [**AddTagToAssetsRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/addtagtoassetsrequest)
- [**AddGlossaryToAssetsRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/addglossarytoassetsrequest)
- [**Tests**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/tests)
- [**OpenMetadataServerVersion**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/openmetadataserverversion)
- [**Policies**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/policies)
- [**SetOwner**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/setowner)
- [**VoteRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/voterequest)
- [**Lineage**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/lineage)
- [**Feed**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/feed)
- [**DocStore**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/docstore)
- [**Teams**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/teams)
- [**Governance**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/governance)
- [**Automations**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/automations)
- [**CreateBot**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/createbot)
- [**CreateEventPublisherJob**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/createeventpublisherjob)
- [**DataInsight**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/datainsight)
- [**CreateType**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/createtype)
- [**Data**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data)
- [**BulkAssets**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/bulkassets)
- [**Services**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services)
- [**Analytics**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/analytics)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/0c2eb140fc343b6cca806f369d73aac7e0ea1e6b from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/index.md, after:

---
title: API Schemas Index | OpenMetadata API Schema Overview
description: API metadata schema for defining REST endpoints, schemas, documentation, and request/response types.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api
---

# Api

This folder contains the following items:

- [**Classification**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/classification)
- [**Domains**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/domains)
- [**AddTagToAssetsRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/addtagtoassetsrequest)
- [**AddGlossaryToAssetsRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/addglossarytoassetsrequest)
- [**Tests**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/tests)
- [**OpenMetadataServerVersion**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/openmetadataserverversion)
- [**Policies**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/policies)
- [**SetOwner**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/setowner)
- [**VoteRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/voterequest)
- [**Lineage**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/lineage)
- [**Feed**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/feed)
- [**DocStore**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/docstore)
- [**Teams**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/teams)
- [**Governance**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/governance)
- [**Automations**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/automations)
- [**CreateBot**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/createbot)
- [**CreateEventPublisherJob**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/createeventpublisherjob)
- [**DataInsight**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/datainsight)
- [**CreateType**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/createtype)
- [**Data**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data)
- [**BulkAssets**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/bulkassets)
- [**Services**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services)
- [**Analytics**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/analytics)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
