content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/hiveConnection.md, before:

---
title: Hive Connection | OpenMetadata Hive Database Connection
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/hiveconnection
---

# HiveConnection

*Hive SQL Connection Config*

## Properties

- **`type`**: Service Type. Refer to *[#/definitions/hiveType](#definitions/hiveType)*. Default: `"Hive"`.
- **`scheme`**: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Refer to *[#/definitions/hiveScheme](#definitions/hiveScheme)*. Default: `"hive"`.
- **`username`** *(string)*: Username to connect to Hive. This user should have privileges to read all the metadata in Hive.
- **`password`** *(string, format: password)*: Password to connect to Hive.
- **`hostPort`** *(string)*: Host and port of the Hive service.
- **`auth`** *(string)*: Authentication mode to connect to hive. Must be one of: `["NONE", "LDAP", "KERBEROS", "CUSTOM", "NOSASL", "BASIC", "GSSAPI", "JWT", "PLAIN"]`. Default: `"NONE"`.
- **`kerberosServiceName`** *(string)*: If authenticating with Kerberos specify the Kerberos service name.
- **`databaseSchema`** *(string)*: Database Schema of the data source. This is optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single schema. When left blank, OpenMetadata Ingestion attempts to scan all the schemas.
- **`databaseName`** *(string)*: Optional name to give to the database in OpenMetadata. If left blank, we will use default as the database name.
- **`authOptions`** *(string)*: Authentication options to pass to Hive connector. These options are based on SQLAlchemy.
- **`metastoreConnection`**: Hive Metastore Connection Details.
  - **One of**
    - : Refer to *[./postgresConnection.json](#postgresConnection.json)*.
    - : Refer to *[./mysqlConnection.json](#mysqlConnection.json)*.
    - *object*: Cannot contain additional properties.
- **`connectionOptions`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions)*.
- **`connectionArguments`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments)*.
- **`supportsMetadataExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction)*.
- **`supportsDBTExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction)*.
- **`supportsProfiler`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler)*.
- **`sampleDataStorageConfig`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig)*.
- **`supportsViewLineageExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsViewLineageExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsViewLineageExtraction)*.
## Definitions

- **`hiveType`** *(string)*: Service type. Must be one of: `["Hive"]`. Default: `"Hive"`.
- **`hiveScheme`** *(string)*: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Must be one of: `["hive", "hive+http", "hive+https"]`. Default: `"hive"`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/4c0b4582f938a644b3550a73b161f39c1e02f0b9 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/hiveConnection.md, after:

---
title: Hive Connection | OpenMetadata Hive Database Connection
description: Define Hive connection schema to extract metadata from Hadoop-based data warehouses and Hive metastore.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/hiveconnection
---

# HiveConnection

*Hive SQL Connection Config*

## Properties

- **`type`**: Service Type. Refer to *[#/definitions/hiveType](#definitions/hiveType)*. Default: `"Hive"`.
- **`scheme`**: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Refer to *[#/definitions/hiveScheme](#definitions/hiveScheme)*. Default: `"hive"`.
- **`username`** *(string)*: Username to connect to Hive. This user should have privileges to read all the metadata in Hive.
- **`password`** *(string, format: password)*: Password to connect to Hive.
- **`hostPort`** *(string)*: Host and port of the Hive service.
- **`auth`** *(string)*: Authentication mode to connect to hive. Must be one of: `["NONE", "LDAP", "KERBEROS", "CUSTOM", "NOSASL", "BASIC", "GSSAPI", "JWT", "PLAIN"]`. Default: `"NONE"`.
- **`kerberosServiceName`** *(string)*: If authenticating with Kerberos specify the Kerberos service name.
- **`databaseSchema`** *(string)*: Database Schema of the data source. This is optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single schema. When left blank, OpenMetadata Ingestion attempts to scan all the schemas.
- **`databaseName`** *(string)*: Optional name to give to the database in OpenMetadata. If left blank, we will use default as the database name.
- **`authOptions`** *(string)*: Authentication options to pass to Hive connector. These options are based on SQLAlchemy.
- **`metastoreConnection`**: Hive Metastore Connection Details.
  - **One of**
    - : Refer to *[./postgresConnection.json](#postgresConnection.json)*.
    - : Refer to *[./mysqlConnection.json](#mysqlConnection.json)*.
    - *object*: Cannot contain additional properties.
- **`connectionOptions`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions)*.
- **`connectionArguments`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments)*.
- **`supportsMetadataExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction)*.
- **`supportsDBTExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction)*.
- **`supportsProfiler`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler)*.
- **`sampleDataStorageConfig`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig)*.
- **`supportsViewLineageExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsViewLineageExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsViewLineageExtraction)*.
## Definitions

- **`hiveType`** *(string)*: Service type. Must be one of: `["Hive"]`. Default: `"Hive"`.
- **`hiveScheme`** *(string)*: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Must be one of: `["hive", "hive+http", "hive+https"]`. Default: `"hive"`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
