content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/impalaConnection.md, before:

---
title: Impala Connection | OpenMetadata Impala Database Connection
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/impalaconnection
---

# ImpalaConnection

*Impala SQL Connection Config*

## Properties

- **`type`**: Service Type. Refer to *[#/definitions/impalaType](#definitions/impalaType)*. Default: `"Impala"`.
- **`scheme`**: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Refer to *[#/definitions/impalaScheme](#definitions/impalaScheme)*. Default: `"impala"`.
- **`username`** *(string)*: Username to connect to Impala. This user should have privileges to read all the metadata in Impala.
- **`password`** *(string, format: password)*: Password to connect to Impala.
- **`hostPort`** *(string)*: Host and port of the Impala service.
- **`authMechanism`** *(string)*: Authentication mode to connect to Impala. Must be one of: `["NOSASL", "PLAIN", "GSSAPI", "LDAP", "JWT"]`. Default: `"PLAIN"`.
- **`kerberosServiceName`** *(string)*: If authenticating with Kerberos specify the Kerberos service name.
- **`databaseSchema`** *(string)*: Database Schema of the data source. This is optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single schema. When left blank, OpenMetadata Ingestion attempts to scan all the schemas.
- **`databaseName`** *(string)*: Optional name to give to the database in OpenMetadata. If left blank, we will use default as the database name.
- **`useSSL`** *(boolean)*: Establish secure connection with Impala.
- **`authOptions`** *(string)*: Authentication options to pass to Impala connector. These options are based on SQLAlchemy.
- **`connectionOptions`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions)*.
- **`connectionArguments`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments)*.
- **`supportsMetadataExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction)*.
- **`supportsDBTExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction)*.
- **`supportsProfiler`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler)*.
- **`sampleDataStorageConfig`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig)*.
- **`supportsViewLineageExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsViewLineageExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsViewLineageExtraction)*.
## Definitions

- **`impalaType`** *(string)*: Service type. Must be one of: `["Impala"]`. Default: `"Impala"`.
- **`impalaScheme`** *(string)*: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Must be one of: `["impala", "impala4"]`. Default: `"impala"`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/4c0b4582f938a644b3550a73b161f39c1e02f0b9 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/impalaConnection.md, after:

---
title: Impala Connection | OpenMetadata Impala Database Connection
description: Impala connection schema to extract metadata from distributed queries and database structures.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/impalaconnection
---

# ImpalaConnection

*Impala SQL Connection Config*

## Properties

- **`type`**: Service Type. Refer to *[#/definitions/impalaType](#definitions/impalaType)*. Default: `"Impala"`.
- **`scheme`**: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Refer to *[#/definitions/impalaScheme](#definitions/impalaScheme)*. Default: `"impala"`.
- **`username`** *(string)*: Username to connect to Impala. This user should have privileges to read all the metadata in Impala.
- **`password`** *(string, format: password)*: Password to connect to Impala.
- **`hostPort`** *(string)*: Host and port of the Impala service.
- **`authMechanism`** *(string)*: Authentication mode to connect to Impala. Must be one of: `["NOSASL", "PLAIN", "GSSAPI", "LDAP", "JWT"]`. Default: `"PLAIN"`.
- **`kerberosServiceName`** *(string)*: If authenticating with Kerberos specify the Kerberos service name.
- **`databaseSchema`** *(string)*: Database Schema of the data source. This is optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single schema. When left blank, OpenMetadata Ingestion attempts to scan all the schemas.
- **`databaseName`** *(string)*: Optional name to give to the database in OpenMetadata. If left blank, we will use default as the database name.
- **`useSSL`** *(boolean)*: Establish secure connection with Impala.
- **`authOptions`** *(string)*: Authentication options to pass to Impala connector. These options are based on SQLAlchemy.
- **`connectionOptions`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions)*.
- **`connectionArguments`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments)*.
- **`supportsMetadataExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction)*.
- **`supportsDBTExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction)*.
- **`supportsProfiler`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler)*.
- **`sampleDataStorageConfig`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig)*.
- **`supportsViewLineageExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsViewLineageExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsViewLineageExtraction)*.
## Definitions

- **`impalaType`** *(string)*: Service type. Must be one of: `["Impala"]`. Default: `"Impala"`.
- **`impalaScheme`** *(string)*: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Must be one of: `["impala", "impala4"]`. Default: `"impala"`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
