content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/verticaConnection.md, before:

---
title: Vertica Connection | OpenMetadata Vertica
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/verticaconnection
---

# VerticaConnection

*Vertica Connection Config*

## Properties

- **`type`**: Service Type. Refer to *[#/definitions/verticaType](#definitions/verticaType)*. Default: `"Vertica"`.
- **`scheme`**: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Refer to *[#/definitions/verticaScheme](#definitions/verticaScheme)*. Default: `"vertica+vertica_python"`.
- **`username`** *(string)*: Username to connect to Vertica. This user should have privileges to read all the metadata in Vertica.
- **`password`** *(string, format: password)*: Password to connect to Vertica.
- **`hostPort`** *(string)*: Host and port of the Vertica service.
- **`database`** *(string)*: Database of the data source. This is optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single database. When left blank, OpenMetadata Ingestion attempts to scan all the databases.
- **`connectionOptions`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions)*.
- **`connectionArguments`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments)*.
- **`supportsMetadataExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction)*.
- **`supportsUsageExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsUsageExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsUsageExtraction)*.
- **`supportsLineageExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsLineageExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsLineageExtraction)*.
- **`supportsDBTExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction)*.
- **`supportsProfiler`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler)*.
- **`supportsDatabase`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDatabase](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDatabase)*.
- **`supportsQueryComment`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsQueryComment](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsQueryComment)*.
- **`sampleDataStorageConfig`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig)*.
## Definitions

- **`verticaType`** *(string)*: Service type. Must be one of: `["Vertica"]`. Default: `"Vertica"`.
- **`verticaScheme`** *(string)*: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Must be one of: `["vertica+vertica_python"]`. Default: `"vertica+vertica_python"`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/4c0b4582f938a644b3550a73b161f39c1e02f0b9 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/verticaConnection.md, after:

---
title: Vertica Connection | OpenMetadata Vertica
description: Configure Vertica database integration using this schema to ingest metadata and monitor data warehouse usage.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database/verticaconnection
---

# VerticaConnection

*Vertica Connection Config*

## Properties

- **`type`**: Service Type. Refer to *[#/definitions/verticaType](#definitions/verticaType)*. Default: `"Vertica"`.
- **`scheme`**: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Refer to *[#/definitions/verticaScheme](#definitions/verticaScheme)*. Default: `"vertica+vertica_python"`.
- **`username`** *(string)*: Username to connect to Vertica. This user should have privileges to read all the metadata in Vertica.
- **`password`** *(string, format: password)*: Password to connect to Vertica.
- **`hostPort`** *(string)*: Host and port of the Vertica service.
- **`database`** *(string)*: Database of the data source. This is optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single database. When left blank, OpenMetadata Ingestion attempts to scan all the databases.
- **`connectionOptions`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionOptions)*.
- **`connectionArguments`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/connectionArguments)*.
- **`supportsMetadataExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction)*.
- **`supportsUsageExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsUsageExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsUsageExtraction)*.
- **`supportsLineageExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsLineageExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsLineageExtraction)*.
- **`supportsDBTExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDBTExtraction)*.
- **`supportsProfiler`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsProfiler)*.
- **`supportsDatabase`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDatabase](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsDatabase)*.
- **`supportsQueryComment`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsQueryComment](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsQueryComment)*.
- **`sampleDataStorageConfig`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/sampleDataStorageConfig)*.
## Definitions

- **`verticaType`** *(string)*: Service type. Must be one of: `["Vertica"]`. Default: `"Vertica"`.
- **`verticaScheme`** *(string)*: SQLAlchemy driver scheme options. Must be one of: `["vertica+vertica_python"]`. Default: `"vertica+vertica_python"`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
