content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/docStore/document.md, before:

---
title: document
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/docstore/document
---

# Document

*This schema defines Document. A Generic entity to capture any kind of Json Payload.*

## Properties

- **`id`**: Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid*.
- **`name`**: Name of the DocStore. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Display Name that identifies this column name.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`**: Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName*.
- **`description`** *(string)*: Description of the DocStore Entity.
- **`entityType`** *(string)*: Type of the Entity stored in DocStore.
- **`data`**: Refer to *#/definitions/data*.
- **`updatedAt`**: Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp*.
- **`updatedBy`** *(string)*: User who made the update.
- **`version`**: Metadata version of the entity. Refer to *../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion*.
- **`changeDescription`**: Change that lead to this version of the entity. Refer to *../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription*.
- **`href`**: Link to the resource corresponding to this entity. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href*.
## Definitions

- **`data`** *(object)*: Can contain additional properties.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2023-10-27 13:55:46.343512.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/69342d47838a179580eb88704684a4ab351ea8a7 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/docStore/document.md, after:

---
title: document
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/docstore/document
---

# Document

*This schema defines Document. A Generic entity to capture any kind of Json Payload.*

## Properties

- **`id`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`name`**: Name of the DocStore. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName)*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Display Name that identifies this column name.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`**: Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName)*.
- **`description`** *(string)*: Description of the DocStore Entity.
- **`entityType`** *(string)*: Type of the Entity stored in DocStore.
- **`data`**: Refer to *[#/definitions/data](#definitions/data)*.
- **`updatedAt`**: Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.
- **`updatedBy`** *(string)*: User who made the update.
- **`version`**: Metadata version of the entity. Refer to *[../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](#/../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion)*.
- **`changeDescription`**: Change that lead to this version of the entity. Refer to *[../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](#/../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription)*.
- **`href`**: Link to the resource corresponding to this entity. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/href)*.
- **`domain`**: Domain the asset belongs to. When not set, the asset inherits the domain from the parent it belongs to. Refer to *[../../type/entityReference.json](#/../type/entityReference.json)*.
## Definitions

- **`data`** *(object)*: Can contain additional properties.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:25.266839+00:00.
