content/connectors/database/redshift/yaml.md, before:

---
title: Run the Redshift Connector Externally
slug: /connectors/database/redshift/yaml
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="Redshift"
stage="PROD"
platform="OpenMetadata"
availableFeatures=["Metadata", "Query Usage", "Data Profiler", "Data Quality", "dbt", "Lineage", "Column-level Lineage", "Stored Procedures", "Sample Data", "Reverse Metadata (Collate Only)", "Auto-Classification"]
unavailableFeatures=["Owners", "Tags"]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Redshift connector.

Configure and schedule Redshift metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
    - [Incremental Extraction](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/metadata/incremental-extraction/redshift)
- [Query Usage](#query-usage)
- [Lineage](#lineage)
- [Data Profiler](#data-profiler)
- [Data Quality](#data-quality)
- [dbt Integration](#dbt-integration)
- [Enable Security](#securing-redshift-connection-with-ssl-in-openmetadata)
{% collateContent %}
- [Reverse Metadata](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/reverse-metadata)
{% /collateContent %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/external-ingestion-deployment.md" /%}

## Requirements

Redshift user must grant `SELECT` privilege on table [SVV_TABLE_INFO](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_SVV_TABLE_INFO.html) to fetch the metadata of tables and views. For more information visit [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/c_visibility-of-data.html).

```sql

CREATE USER test_user with PASSWORD 'password';
GRANT SELECT ON TABLE svv_table_info to test_user;

```

### Python Requirements

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/python-requirements.md" /%}

To run the Redshift ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[redshift]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/redshiftConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Redshift.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)


**Note:** During the metadata ingestion for redshift, the tables in which the distribution style i.e `DISTSTYLE` is not `AUTO` will be marked as partitioned tables

It is recommmended to exclude the schema "information_schema" from the metadata ingestion as it contains system tables and views.

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Redshift:

{% codePreview %}

{% codeInfoContainer %}

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

{% codeInfo srNumber=1 %}

**username**: Specify the User to connect to Snoflake. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=2 %}

**password**: Password to connect to Redshift.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=3 %}

**database**: The database of the data source is an optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single database. If left blank, OpenMetadata ingestion attempts to scan all the databases.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=4 %}

**hostPort**: Host and port of the Redshift service.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=5 %}

**ingestAllDatabases**: Ingest data from all databases in Redshift. You can use databaseFilterPattern on top of this.

{% /codeInfo %}



{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config-def.md" /%}

#### Advanced Configuration

{% codeInfo srNumber=6 %}

**Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=7 %}

**Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

- In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`

{% /codeInfo %}



{% codeInfo srNumber=9 %}

The sslConfig and sslMode are used to configure the SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) connection between your application and the Redshift server. Redshift will require only rootCertificate i.e caCertificate.

**caCertificate**: This is the path to the CA (Certificate Authority) certificate file. This file is used to verify the server’s certificate.

**sslMode**: This field controls whether a secure SSL/TLS connection will be negotiated with the server. There are several modes you can choose:

disable: No SSL/TLS encryption will be used; the data sent over the network is not encrypted.
allow: The driver will try to negotiate a non-SSL connection but if the server insists on SSL, it will switch to SSL.
prefer (the default): The driver will try to negotiate an SSL connection but if the server does not support SSL, it will switch to a non-SSL connection.
require: The driver will try to negotiate an SSL connection. If the server does not support SSL, the driver will not fall back to a non-SSL connection.
verify-ca: The driver will negotiate an SSL connection and verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted certificate authority (CA).
verify-full: The driver will negotiate an SSL connection, verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted CA and check that the server host name matches the one in the certificate.


{% /codeInfo %}
{% /codeInfoContainer %}


{% codeBlock fileName="filename.yaml" %}

```yaml {% isCodeBlock=true %}
source:
  type: redshift
  serviceName: aws_redshift
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Redshift
```
```yaml {% srNumber=1 %}
      username: username
```
```yaml {% srNumber=2 %}
      password: password
```
```yaml {% srNumber=3 %}
      database: dev
```
```yaml {% srNumber=4 %}
      hostPort: cluster.name.region.redshift.amazonaws.com:5439
```
```yaml {% srNumber=5 %}
      # ingestAllDatabases: true
```
```yaml {% srNumber=9 %}
      # sslConfig:
            # caCertificate: "path/to/ca/certificate"
      # sslMode: disable #allow prefer require verify-ca verify-full
```
```yaml {% srNumber=6 %}
      # connectionOptions:
      #   key: value
```
```yaml {% srNumber=7 %}
      # connectionArguments:
      #   key: value
```

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config.md" /%}

{% /codeBlock %}

{% /codePreview %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-cli.md" /%}


{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/query-usage.md" variables={connector: "redshift"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/lineage.md" variables={connector: "redshift"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-profiler.md" variables={connector: "redshift"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/auto-classification.md" variables={connector: "redshift"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-quality.md" /%}

## Securing Redshift Connection with SSL in OpenMetadata

To configure SSL for secure connections between OpenMetadata and a Redshift database, Redshift offers various SSL modes, each providing different levels of connection security.

When running the ingestion process externally, specify the SSL mode to be used for the Redshift connection, such as `prefer`, `verify-ca`, `allow`, and others. Once you've chosen the SSL mode, provide the CA certificate for SSL validation (`caCertificate`). Only the CA certificate is required for SSL validation in Redshift.

```yaml
      sslMode: disable #allow prefer require verify-ca verify-full
      sslConfig:
            caCertificate: "/path/to/ca/certificate" 
```

## dbt Integration

You can learn more about how to ingest dbt models' definitions and their lineage [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt).

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/9ab2d9d592c44388dfdf8ba250b03d5d876dd4c9 from refs/heads/main

content/connectors/database/redshift/yaml.md, after:

---
title: Run the Redshift Connector Externally
description: Ingest metadata from Redshift using YAML and configure access, profiling, and lineage extraction.
slug: /connectors/database/redshift/yaml
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="Redshift"
stage="PROD"
platform="OpenMetadata"
availableFeatures=["Metadata", "Query Usage", "Data Profiler", "Data Quality", "dbt", "Lineage", "Column-level Lineage", "Stored Procedures", "Sample Data", "Reverse Metadata (Collate Only)", "Auto-Classification"]
unavailableFeatures=["Owners", "Tags"]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Redshift connector.

Configure and schedule Redshift metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
    - [Incremental Extraction](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/metadata/incremental-extraction/redshift)
- [Query Usage](#query-usage)
- [Lineage](#lineage)
- [Data Profiler](#data-profiler)
- [Data Quality](#data-quality)
- [dbt Integration](#dbt-integration)
- [Enable Security](#securing-redshift-connection-with-ssl-in-openmetadata)
{% collateContent %}
- [Reverse Metadata](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/reverse-metadata)
{% /collateContent %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/external-ingestion-deployment.md" /%}

## Requirements

Redshift user must grant `SELECT` privilege on table [SVV_TABLE_INFO](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_SVV_TABLE_INFO.html) to fetch the metadata of tables and views. For more information visit [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/c_visibility-of-data.html).

```sql

CREATE USER test_user with PASSWORD 'password';
GRANT SELECT ON TABLE svv_table_info to test_user;

```

### Python Requirements

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/python-requirements.md" /%}

To run the Redshift ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[redshift]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/redshiftConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Redshift.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)


**Note:** During the metadata ingestion for redshift, the tables in which the distribution style i.e `DISTSTYLE` is not `AUTO` will be marked as partitioned tables

It is recommmended to exclude the schema "information_schema" from the metadata ingestion as it contains system tables and views.

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Redshift:

{% codePreview %}

{% codeInfoContainer %}

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

{% codeInfo srNumber=1 %}

**username**: Specify the User to connect to Snoflake. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=2 %}

**password**: Password to connect to Redshift.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=3 %}

**database**: The database of the data source is an optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single database. If left blank, OpenMetadata ingestion attempts to scan all the databases.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=4 %}

**hostPort**: Host and port of the Redshift service.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=5 %}

**ingestAllDatabases**: Ingest data from all databases in Redshift. You can use databaseFilterPattern on top of this.

{% /codeInfo %}



{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config-def.md" /%}

#### Advanced Configuration

{% codeInfo srNumber=6 %}

**Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=7 %}

**Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

- In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`

{% /codeInfo %}



{% codeInfo srNumber=9 %}

The sslConfig and sslMode are used to configure the SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) connection between your application and the Redshift server. Redshift will require only rootCertificate i.e caCertificate.

**caCertificate**: This is the path to the CA (Certificate Authority) certificate file. This file is used to verify the server’s certificate.

**sslMode**: This field controls whether a secure SSL/TLS connection will be negotiated with the server. There are several modes you can choose:

disable: No SSL/TLS encryption will be used; the data sent over the network is not encrypted.
allow: The driver will try to negotiate a non-SSL connection but if the server insists on SSL, it will switch to SSL.
prefer (the default): The driver will try to negotiate an SSL connection but if the server does not support SSL, it will switch to a non-SSL connection.
require: The driver will try to negotiate an SSL connection. If the server does not support SSL, the driver will not fall back to a non-SSL connection.
verify-ca: The driver will negotiate an SSL connection and verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted certificate authority (CA).
verify-full: The driver will negotiate an SSL connection, verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted CA and check that the server host name matches the one in the certificate.


{% /codeInfo %}
{% /codeInfoContainer %}


{% codeBlock fileName="filename.yaml" %}

```yaml {% isCodeBlock=true %}
source:
  type: redshift
  serviceName: aws_redshift
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Redshift
```
```yaml {% srNumber=1 %}
      username: username
```
```yaml {% srNumber=2 %}
      password: password
```
```yaml {% srNumber=3 %}
      database: dev
```
```yaml {% srNumber=4 %}
      hostPort: cluster.name.region.redshift.amazonaws.com:5439
```
```yaml {% srNumber=5 %}
      # ingestAllDatabases: true
```
```yaml {% srNumber=9 %}
      # sslConfig:
            # caCertificate: "path/to/ca/certificate"
      # sslMode: disable #allow prefer require verify-ca verify-full
```
```yaml {% srNumber=6 %}
      # connectionOptions:
      #   key: value
```
```yaml {% srNumber=7 %}
      # connectionArguments:
      #   key: value
```

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config.md" /%}

{% /codeBlock %}

{% /codePreview %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-cli.md" /%}


{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/query-usage.md" variables={connector: "redshift"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/lineage.md" variables={connector: "redshift"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-profiler.md" variables={connector: "redshift"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/auto-classification.md" variables={connector: "redshift"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-quality.md" /%}

## Securing Redshift Connection with SSL in OpenMetadata

To configure SSL for secure connections between OpenMetadata and a Redshift database, Redshift offers various SSL modes, each providing different levels of connection security.

When running the ingestion process externally, specify the SSL mode to be used for the Redshift connection, such as `prefer`, `verify-ca`, `allow`, and others. Once you've chosen the SSL mode, provide the CA certificate for SSL validation (`caCertificate`). Only the CA certificate is required for SSL validation in Redshift.

```yaml
      sslMode: disable #allow prefer require verify-ca verify-full
      sslConfig:
            caCertificate: "/path/to/ca/certificate" 
```

## dbt Integration

You can learn more about how to ingest dbt models' definitions and their lineage [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt).
