content/developers/contribute/build-code-and-run-tests/generate-typescript-types-from-json-schema.md, before:

---
title: Generate Typescript Types From JSON Schema
slug: /developers/contribute/build-code-and-run-tests/generate-typescript-types-from-json-schema
---

# Generate Typescript Types From JSON Schema
This step-by-step guide will help you to generate typescript types from JSON schema.

We are using [quicktype](https://quicktype.io/) to generate types from JSON Schema.

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have `quicktype` installed. If not, install it using the commands below.

## Steps to Generate TypeScript Types

### Step 1: Install Dependencies

Navigate to the `openmetadata-ui` directory and install dependencies:

```bash
cd openmetadata-ui/src/main/resources/ui
yarn install
```

### Step 2: Option A - Generate Types for Staged Files

Return to the root folder, add the relevant files to the staging area, and execute the following command:

```bash
changed_files=$(git diff --cached --name-only --diff-filter=ACM | grep 'openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/')
```

This command identifies all staged files located in the `openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/` path and stores the file paths in the changed_files variable.

### Step 2: Option B - Generate Types for Specific JSON File

From the OpenMetadata root folder, you can generate types for a specific JSON schema file using:

```bash
./generate_ts.sh <relative path of json file>
```

Examples:
```bash
./generate_ts.sh openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/ingestionPipelines/ingestionPipeline.json
```

Note: The path should be relative to the OpenMetadata directory.

### Step 3: Generate TypeScript Types

If using Option A, run the following script to generate TypeScript types for the identified JSON schema files:

```bash
./openmetadata-ui/src/main/resources/ui/json2ts.sh $changed_files
```

This script processes the staged JSON schema files and generates the corresponding TypeScript types.

The generated TypeScript types will be available in the appropriate location within the UI project structure.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/0c2eb140fc343b6cca806f369d73aac7e0ea1e6b from refs/heads/main

content/developers/contribute/build-code-and-run-tests/generate-typescript-types-from-json-schema.md, after:

---
title: Generate Typescript Types From JSON Schema
description: Use this guide to generate TypeScript type definitions from JSON Schema to maintain consistency and type safety.
slug: /developers/contribute/build-code-and-run-tests/generate-typescript-types-from-json-schema
---

# Generate Typescript Types From JSON Schema
This step-by-step guide will help you to generate typescript types from JSON schema.

We are using [quicktype](https://quicktype.io/) to generate types from JSON Schema.

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have `quicktype` installed. If not, install it using the commands below.

## Steps to Generate TypeScript Types

### Step 1: Install Dependencies

Navigate to the `openmetadata-ui` directory and install dependencies:

```bash
cd openmetadata-ui/src/main/resources/ui
yarn install
```

### Step 2: Option A - Generate Types for Staged Files

Return to the root folder, add the relevant files to the staging area, and execute the following command:

```bash
changed_files=$(git diff --cached --name-only --diff-filter=ACM | grep 'openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/')
```

This command identifies all staged files located in the `openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/` path and stores the file paths in the changed_files variable.

### Step 2: Option B - Generate Types for Specific JSON File

From the OpenMetadata root folder, you can generate types for a specific JSON schema file using:

```bash
./generate_ts.sh <relative path of json file>
```

Examples:
```bash
./generate_ts.sh openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/ingestionPipelines/ingestionPipeline.json
```

Note: The path should be relative to the OpenMetadata directory.

### Step 3: Generate TypeScript Types

If using Option A, run the following script to generate TypeScript types for the identified JSON schema files:

```bash
./openmetadata-ui/src/main/resources/ui/json2ts.sh $changed_files
```

This script processes the staged JSON schema files and generates the corresponding TypeScript types.

The generated TypeScript types will be available in the appropriate location within the UI project structure.
