content/developers/contribute/build-code-and-run-tests/openmetadata-ui.md, before:

---
title: OpenMetadata UI | Developer Guide & Setup
slug: /developers/contribute/build-code-and-run-tests/openmetadata-ui
---

# OpenMetadata UI
This guide will help you run OpenMetadata UI locally in dev mode.

## Pre-requisites
Before proceeding, ensure that you have installed the node and yarn with the versions given below.

```shell
"node": ">=18.19.0",
"yarn": "^1.22.0"
```

Install [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/).

Install ANTLR using our recipes via

```shell
sudo make install_antlr_cli
```

Using the command below, spin up the server locally from the directory `openmetadata-dist/target/openmetadata-*-SNAPSHOT`.

```shell
./bin/openmetadata-server-start.sh conf/openmetadata.yaml
```

> Since typescript is heavily used in the OpenMetadata project, we generate the typescript types and the interface from JSON schema. We use the `QuickType` tool to generate the typescript types and interfaces. You can view the complete instructions [here](/developers/contribute/build-code-and-run-tests/generate-typescript-types-from-json-schema).

## Steps to Run OpenMetadata UI
Once the node and yarn are installed in the system, you can perform the following steps to run OpenMetadata UI.

**Step 1**: Run the given command to install the required dependencies.

**Note**: It’s a one-time task to install dependencies. If there are any changes in the `package.json` file, the following steps will have to be performed again.

```shell
# installing dependencies
> make yarn_install_cache
```

**Step 2**: Start the UI locally

```shell
# starting the UI locally
> make yarn_start_dev_ui
```
**Step 3**: Visit [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) to access the OpenMetadata UI.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/0c2eb140fc343b6cca806f369d73aac7e0ea1e6b from refs/heads/main

content/developers/contribute/build-code-and-run-tests/openmetadata-ui.md, after:

---
title: OpenMetadata UI | Developer Guide & Setup
description: Build and test the metadata UI locally by setting up this frontend development environment guide.
slug: /developers/contribute/build-code-and-run-tests/openmetadata-ui
---

# OpenMetadata UI
This guide will help you run OpenMetadata UI locally in dev mode.

## Pre-requisites
Before proceeding, ensure that you have installed the node and yarn with the versions given below.

```shell
"node": ">=18.19.0",
"yarn": "^1.22.0"
```

Install [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/).

Install ANTLR using our recipes via

```shell
sudo make install_antlr_cli
```

Using the command below, spin up the server locally from the directory `openmetadata-dist/target/openmetadata-*-SNAPSHOT`.

```shell
./bin/openmetadata-server-start.sh conf/openmetadata.yaml
```

> Since typescript is heavily used in the OpenMetadata project, we generate the typescript types and the interface from JSON schema. We use the `QuickType` tool to generate the typescript types and interfaces. You can view the complete instructions [here](/developers/contribute/build-code-and-run-tests/generate-typescript-types-from-json-schema).

## Steps to Run OpenMetadata UI
Once the node and yarn are installed in the system, you can perform the following steps to run OpenMetadata UI.

**Step 1**: Run the given command to install the required dependencies.

**Note**: It’s a one-time task to install dependencies. If there are any changes in the `package.json` file, the following steps will have to be performed again.

```shell
# installing dependencies
> make yarn_install_cache
```

**Step 2**: Start the UI locally

```shell
# starting the UI locally
> make yarn_start_dev_ui
```
**Step 3**: Visit [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/) to access the OpenMetadata UI.
