content/connectors/ml-model/mlflow/index.md, before:

---
title: MLflow Connector | OpenMetadata ML Model Integration
slug: /connectors/ml-model/mlflow
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="MLflow"
stage="PROD"
platform="OpenMetadata"
availableFeatures=["ML Features", "Hyperparameters", "ML Store"]
unavailableFeatures=[]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the MLflow connector.

Configure and schedule MLflow metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Troubleshooting](/connectors/ml-model/mlflow/troubleshooting)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/ingestion-modes-tiles.md" variables={yamlPath: "/connectors/ml-model/mlflow/yaml"} /%}

## Requirements

To extract metadata, OpenMetadata needs two elements:
- **Tracking URI**: Address of local or remote tracking server. More information on the MLflow documentation [here](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html#where-runs-are-recorded)
- **Registry URI**: Address of local or remote model registry server.

## Metadata Ingestion

{% partial 
  file="/v1.8/connectors/metadata-ingestion-ui.md" 
  variables={
    connector: "Mlflow", 
    selectServicePath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/mlflow/select-service.png",
    addNewServicePath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/mlflow/add-new-service.png",
    serviceConnectionPath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/mlflow/service-connection.png",
} 
/%}

{% stepsContainer %}
{% extraContent parentTagName="stepsContainer" %}

#### Connection Details

- **trackingUri**: Mlflow Experiment tracking URI. E.g., http://localhost:5000
- **registryUri**: Mlflow Model registry backend. E.g., mysql+pymysql://mlflow:password@localhost:3307/experiments

{% /extraContent %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/test-connection.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/ml-model/configure-ingestion.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/ingestion-schedule-and-deploy.md" /%}

{% /stepsContainer %}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/bd5955fca2d8eb38387225be5598d4b092df7623 from refs/heads/main

content/connectors/ml-model/mlflow/index.md, after:

---
title: MLflow Connector | OpenMetadata ML Model Integration
description: Connect MLflow to OpenMetadata seamlessly with our comprehensive connector guide. Learn setup, configuration, and ML model metadata integration in minutes.
slug: /connectors/ml-model/mlflow
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="MLflow"
stage="PROD"
platform="OpenMetadata"
availableFeatures=["ML Features", "Hyperparameters", "ML Store"]
unavailableFeatures=[]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the MLflow connector.

Configure and schedule MLflow metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Troubleshooting](/connectors/ml-model/mlflow/troubleshooting)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/ingestion-modes-tiles.md" variables={yamlPath: "/connectors/ml-model/mlflow/yaml"} /%}

## Requirements

To extract metadata, OpenMetadata needs two elements:
- **Tracking URI**: Address of local or remote tracking server. More information on the MLflow documentation [here](https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html#where-runs-are-recorded)
- **Registry URI**: Address of local or remote model registry server.

## Metadata Ingestion

{% partial 
  file="/v1.8/connectors/metadata-ingestion-ui.md" 
  variables={
    connector: "Mlflow", 
    selectServicePath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/mlflow/select-service.png",
    addNewServicePath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/mlflow/add-new-service.png",
    serviceConnectionPath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/mlflow/service-connection.png",
} 
/%}

{% stepsContainer %}
{% extraContent parentTagName="stepsContainer" %}

#### Connection Details

- **trackingUri**: Mlflow Experiment tracking URI. E.g., http://localhost:5000
- **registryUri**: Mlflow Model registry backend. E.g., mysql+pymysql://mlflow:password@localhost:3307/experiments

{% /extraContent %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/test-connection.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/ml-model/configure-ingestion.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/ingestion-schedule-and-deploy.md" /%}

{% /stepsContainer %}
