content/connectors/dashboard/domo-dashboard/yaml.md, before:

---
title: Run the Domo Dashboard Connector Externally
slug: /connectors/dashboard/domo-dashboard/yaml
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
  name="Domo"
  stage="PROD"
  platform="OpenMetadata"
  availableFeatures=["Dashboards", "Charts", "Owners"]
  unavailableFeatures=["Tags", "Datamodels", "Projects", "Lineage"]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the DomoDashboard connector.

Configure and schedule DomoDashboard metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/external-ingestion-deployment.md" /%}

## Requirements

**Note:** For metadata ingestion, kindly make sure add atleast `dashboard` scopes to the clientId provided.
Question related to scopes, click [here](https://developer.domo.com/portal/1845fc11bbe5d-api-authentication).

### Python Requirements

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/python-requirements.md" /%}

To run the DomoDashboard ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[domo]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas. 
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/dashboard/lookerConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to DomoDashboard.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Domo-Dashboard:

{% codePreview %}

{% codeInfoContainer %}

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

{% codeInfo srNumber=1 %}

**Client ID**: Client ID to Connect to DOMO Dashboard.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=2 %}

**Secret Token**: Secret Token to Connect DOMO Dashboard.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=3 %}

**Access Token**: Access to Connect to DOMO Dashboard.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=4 %}

**API Host**:  API Host to Connect to DOMO Dashboard instance.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=5 %}

**Instance Domain**: URL to connect to your Domo instance UI. For example `https://<your>.domo.com`.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/dashboard/source-config-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config-def.md" /%}

{% /codeInfoContainer %}

{% codeBlock fileName="filename.yaml" %}

```yaml {% isCodeBlock=true %}
source:
  type: domodashboard
  serviceName: local_domodashboard
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: DomoDashboard
```
```yaml {% srNumber=1 %}
      clientId: clientid
```
```yaml {% srNumber=2 %}
      secretToken: secret-token
```
```yaml {% srNumber=3 %}
      accessToken: access-token
```
```yaml {% srNumber=4 %}
      apiHost: api.domo.com
```
```yaml {% srNumber=5 %}
      instanceDomain: https://<your>.domo.com
```

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/dashboard/source-config.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config.md" /%}

{% /codeBlock %}

{% /codePreview %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-cli.md" /%}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/bd5955fca2d8eb38387225be5598d4b092df7623 from refs/heads/main

content/connectors/dashboard/domo-dashboard/yaml.md, after:

---
title: Run the Domo Dashboard Connector Externally
description: Configure OpenMetadata's Domo Dashboard connector with YAML - step-by-step setup guide, authentication options, and configuration examples.
slug: /connectors/dashboard/domo-dashboard/yaml
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
  name="Domo"
  stage="PROD"
  platform="OpenMetadata"
  availableFeatures=["Dashboards", "Charts", "Owners"]
  unavailableFeatures=["Tags", "Datamodels", "Projects", "Lineage"]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the DomoDashboard connector.

Configure and schedule DomoDashboard metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/external-ingestion-deployment.md" /%}

## Requirements

**Note:** For metadata ingestion, kindly make sure add atleast `dashboard` scopes to the clientId provided.
Question related to scopes, click [here](https://developer.domo.com/portal/1845fc11bbe5d-api-authentication).

### Python Requirements

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/python-requirements.md" /%}

To run the DomoDashboard ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[domo]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas. 
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/dashboard/lookerConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to DomoDashboard.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Domo-Dashboard:

{% codePreview %}

{% codeInfoContainer %}

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

{% codeInfo srNumber=1 %}

**Client ID**: Client ID to Connect to DOMO Dashboard.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=2 %}

**Secret Token**: Secret Token to Connect DOMO Dashboard.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=3 %}

**Access Token**: Access to Connect to DOMO Dashboard.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=4 %}

**API Host**:  API Host to Connect to DOMO Dashboard instance.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=5 %}

**Instance Domain**: URL to connect to your Domo instance UI. For example `https://<your>.domo.com`.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/dashboard/source-config-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config-def.md" /%}

{% /codeInfoContainer %}

{% codeBlock fileName="filename.yaml" %}

```yaml {% isCodeBlock=true %}
source:
  type: domodashboard
  serviceName: local_domodashboard
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: DomoDashboard
```
```yaml {% srNumber=1 %}
      clientId: clientid
```
```yaml {% srNumber=2 %}
      secretToken: secret-token
```
```yaml {% srNumber=3 %}
      accessToken: access-token
```
```yaml {% srNumber=4 %}
      apiHost: api.domo.com
```
```yaml {% srNumber=5 %}
      instanceDomain: https://<your>.domo.com
```

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/dashboard/source-config.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config.md" /%}

{% /codeBlock %}

{% /codePreview %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-cli.md" /%}
