content/deployment/security/azure/kubernetes.md, before:

---
title: Azure SSO for Kubernetes
slug: /deployment/security/azure/kubernetes
collate: false
---

# Azure SSO for Kubernetes

Check the Helm information [here](https://artifacthub.io/packages/search?repo=open-metadata).

Get the `Client Id` and `Tenant ID` from Azure Application configured in [Step 3](/deployment/security/azure#step-3-where-to-find-the-credentials).

See the snippet below for an example of where to place the values and update the authorizer configurations in the `values.yaml`.

```yaml
openmetadata:
  config:
    authorizer:
      className: "org.openmetadata.service.security.DefaultAuthorizer"
      containerRequestFilter: "org.openmetadata.service.security.JwtFilter"
      initialAdmins:
        - "user1"
        - "user2"
      principalDomain: "open-metadata.org"
    authentication:
      provider: "azure"
      publicKeys:
      - "{your domain}/api/v1/system/config/jwks" # Update with your Domain and Make sure this "/api/v1/system/config/jwks" is always configured to enable JWT tokens
      - "https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/discovery/keys"
      authority: "https://login.microsoftonline.com/{Tenant ID}"
      clientId: "{Client ID}" # Azure Application
      callbackUrl: "http://localhost:8585/callback"
```

{% note %}

Altering the order of claims in `jwtPrincipalClaims` may lead to problems when matching a user from a token with an existing user in the system. The mapping process relies on the specific order of claims, so changing it can result in inconsistencies or authentication failures, as the system cannot ensure correct user mapping with a new claim order.

{% /note %}

{% partial file="/v1.5/deployment/configure-ingestion.md" /%}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/79af8bf78b8a87eebf7352bdfcd0969a2f98a18a from refs/heads/main

content/deployment/security/azure/kubernetes.md, after:

---
title: Azure SSO for Kubernetes
slug: /deployment/security/azure/kubernetes
collate: false
---

# Azure SSO for Kubernetes

Check the Helm information [here](https://artifacthub.io/packages/search?repo=open-metadata).

Get the `Client Id` and `Tenant ID` from Azure Application configured in [Step 3](/deployment/security/azure#step-3-where-to-find-the-credentials).

See the snippet below for an example of where to place the values and update the authorizer configurations in the `values.yaml`.

```yaml
openmetadata:
  config:
    authorizer:
      className: "org.openmetadata.service.security.DefaultAuthorizer"
      containerRequestFilter: "org.openmetadata.service.security.JwtFilter"
      initialAdmins:
        - "user1"
        - "user2"
      principalDomain: "open-metadata.org"
    authentication:
      provider: "azure"
      publicKeys:
      - "https://{your domain}/api/v1/system/config/jwks" # Update with your Domain and Make sure this "/api/v1/system/config/jwks" is always configured to enable JWT tokens
      - "https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/discovery/keys"
      authority: "https://login.microsoftonline.com/{Tenant ID}"
      clientId: "{Client ID}" # Azure Application
      callbackUrl: "https://{your domain}/callback"
```

{% note %}

`AUTHENTICATION_PUBLIC_KEYS` and `AUTHENTICATION_CALLBACK_URL` refers to https://{your domain} this is referring to your OpenMetdata installation domain name
and please make sure to correctly put http or https depending on your installation.

{% /note %}

{% note %}

Altering the order of claims in `jwtPrincipalClaims` may lead to problems when matching a user from a token with an existing user in the system. The mapping process relies on the specific order of claims, so changing it can result in inconsistencies or authentication failures, as the system cannot ensure correct user mapping with a new claim order.

{% /note %}

{% partial file="/v1.5/deployment/configure-ingestion.md" /%}
