content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/index.md, before:

---
title: Connections Schema | OpenMetadata Connections
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections
---

# Connections

This folder contains the following items:

- [**Database**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database)
- [**Pipeline**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/pipeline)
- [**ServiceConnection**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/serviceconnection)
- [**Mlmodel**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/mlmodel)
- [**Storage**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/storage)
- [**Search**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/search)
- [**Dashboard**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/dashboard)
- [**Common**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/common)
- [**TestConnectionDefinition**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/testconnectiondefinition)
- [**Api**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/api)
- [**TestConnectionResult**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/testconnectionresult)
- [**Messaging**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/messaging)
- [**Metadata**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/metadata)
- [**ConnectionBasicType**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/connectionbasictype)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/d4728d13f5a78e45ca1d97635f6821be217735a7 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/index.md, after:

---
title: Connections Schema | OpenMetadata Connections
description: Model generic service connection metadata for all supported service types in the platform.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections
---

# Connections

This folder contains the following items:

- [**Database**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/database)
- [**Pipeline**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/pipeline)
- [**ServiceConnection**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/serviceconnection)
- [**Mlmodel**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/mlmodel)
- [**Storage**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/storage)
- [**Search**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/search)
- [**Dashboard**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/dashboard)
- [**Common**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/common)
- [**TestConnectionDefinition**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/testconnectiondefinition)
- [**Api**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/api)
- [**TestConnectionResult**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/testconnectionresult)
- [**Messaging**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/messaging)
- [**Metadata**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/metadata)
- [**ConnectionBasicType**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/connectionbasictype)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
