content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/index.md, before:

---
title: Schemas Index | OpenMetadata Metadata Schemas Overview
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas
---

# Schema

This folder contains the following items:

- [**Settings**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/settings)
- [**Configuration**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/configuration)
- [**Security**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/security)
- [**Auth**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth)
- [**Entity**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity)
- [**Tests**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/tests)
- [**MetadataIngestion**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/metadataingestion)
- [**System**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/system)
- [**Type**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/type)
- [**Governance**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/governance)
- [**Api**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api)
- [**DataInsight**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight)
- [**Jobs**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/jobs)
- [**Monitoring**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/monitoring)
- [**Events**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/events)
- [**Email**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/email)
- [**Analytics**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/analytics)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/703abc52f45c9331395930f0a9bef3fa59bf8137 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/index.md, after:

---
title: Schemas Index | OpenMetadata Metadata Schemas Overview
description: Explore OpenMetadata's comprehensive schema standards and metadata structures. Learn how to define, manage, and implement data schemas effectively.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas
---

# Schema

This folder contains the following items:

- [**Settings**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/settings)
- [**Configuration**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/configuration)
- [**Security**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/security)
- [**Auth**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth)
- [**Entity**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity)
- [**Tests**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/tests)
- [**MetadataIngestion**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/metadataingestion)
- [**System**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/system)
- [**Type**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/type)
- [**Governance**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/governance)
- [**Api**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api)
- [**DataInsight**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight)
- [**Jobs**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/jobs)
- [**Monitoring**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/monitoring)
- [**Events**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/events)
- [**Email**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/email)
- [**Analytics**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/analytics)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
