content/deployment/index.md, before:

---
title: Deployment | OpenMetadata Installation & Setup Guide
slug: /deployment
collate: false
---

# From 0 to OpenMetadata in 5 minutes

Are you exploring or doing a PoC? It won't get easier than following our Quickstart guide!

{% inlineCalloutContainer %}

{% inlineCallout
icon="celebration"
bold="Quickstart OpenMetadata"
href="/quick-start/local-docker-deployment" %}
Get OpenMetadata up and running in under 5 minutes!
{% /inlineCallout %}

{% inlineCallout
icon="open_in_new"
bold="Try the OpenMetadata Sandbox"
href="/quick-start/sandbox" %}
Interact with a sample installation with 0 setup to explore our Discovery, Governance and Collaboration features.
{% /inlineCallout %}

{% /inlineCalloutContainer %}

# Architecture and Deployment

We support different kinds of deployment:

{%inlineCalloutContainer%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="celebration"
    bold="Local Docker Deployment"
    href="/quick-start/local-docker-deployment"%}
    Get OpenMetadata up and running locally in under 7 minutes!
  {%/inlineCallout%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="storage"
    bold="Deploy on Bare Metal"
    href="/deployment/bare-metal"%}
    Deploy OpenMetadata directly using the binaries.
  {%/inlineCallout%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="fit_screen"
    bold="Deploy on Kubernetes"
    href="/deployment/kubernetes"%}
    Deploy and scale with Kubernetes
  {%/inlineCallout%}
{%/inlineCalloutContainer%}

# Security

Find further information on how to secure your OpenMetadata deployment:

{%inlineCalloutContainer%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="add_moderator"
    bold="Enable Security"
    href="/deployment/security"%}
    Enable Security for your OpenMetadata deployment
  {%/inlineCallout%}
{%/inlineCalloutContainer%}

# Production-Ready Requirements

Find further information on how to secure your OpenMetadata deployment:

{%inlineCalloutContainer%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="celebration"
    bold="Production-Ready Requirements"
    href="/deployment/requirements"%}
    Production-Ready Requirements for OpenMetadata Deployment
  {%/inlineCallout%}
{%/inlineCalloutContainer%}

# Upgrade

Learn how to move from version to version:

{%inlineCalloutContainer%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="10k"
    bold="Upgrade OpenMetadata"
    href="/deployment/upgrade/"%}
    Upgrade your OpenMetadata deployment
  {%/inlineCallout%}
{%/inlineCalloutContainer%}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/9ab2d9d592c44388dfdf8ba250b03d5d876dd4c9 from refs/heads/main

content/deployment/index.md, after:

---
title: Deployment | OpenMetadata Installation & Setup Guide
description: Deploy, configure, and manage OpenMetadata across environments with security and scaling guidance.
slug: /deployment
collate: false
---

# From 0 to OpenMetadata in 5 minutes

Are you exploring or doing a PoC? It won't get easier than following our Quickstart guide!

{% inlineCalloutContainer %}

{% inlineCallout
icon="celebration"
bold="Quickstart OpenMetadata"
href="/quick-start/local-docker-deployment" %}
Get OpenMetadata up and running in under 5 minutes!
{% /inlineCallout %}

{% inlineCallout
icon="open_in_new"
bold="Try the OpenMetadata Sandbox"
href="/quick-start/sandbox" %}
Interact with a sample installation with 0 setup to explore our Discovery, Governance and Collaboration features.
{% /inlineCallout %}

{% /inlineCalloutContainer %}

# Architecture and Deployment

We support different kinds of deployment:

{%inlineCalloutContainer%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="celebration"
    bold="Local Docker Deployment"
    href="/quick-start/local-docker-deployment"%}
    Get OpenMetadata up and running locally in under 7 minutes!
  {%/inlineCallout%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="storage"
    bold="Deploy on Bare Metal"
    href="/deployment/bare-metal"%}
    Deploy OpenMetadata directly using the binaries.
  {%/inlineCallout%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="fit_screen"
    bold="Deploy on Kubernetes"
    href="/deployment/kubernetes"%}
    Deploy and scale with Kubernetes
  {%/inlineCallout%}
{%/inlineCalloutContainer%}

# Security

Find further information on how to secure your OpenMetadata deployment:

{%inlineCalloutContainer%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="add_moderator"
    bold="Enable Security"
    href="/deployment/security"%}
    Enable Security for your OpenMetadata deployment
  {%/inlineCallout%}
{%/inlineCalloutContainer%}

# Production-Ready Requirements

Find further information on how to secure your OpenMetadata deployment:

{%inlineCalloutContainer%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="celebration"
    bold="Production-Ready Requirements"
    href="/deployment/requirements"%}
    Production-Ready Requirements for OpenMetadata Deployment
  {%/inlineCallout%}
{%/inlineCalloutContainer%}

# Upgrade

Learn how to move from version to version:

{%inlineCalloutContainer%}
  {%inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="10k"
    bold="Upgrade OpenMetadata"
    href="/deployment/upgrade/"%}
    Upgrade your OpenMetadata deployment
  {%/inlineCallout%}
{%/inlineCalloutContainer%}
