content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/index.md, before:

---
title: Feed Schema | OpenMetadata Feed Schema and API Documentation
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed
---

# Feed

This folder contains the following items:

- [**Domain**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/domain)
- [**TestCaseResult**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/testcaseresult)
- [**Thread**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/thread)
- [**Suggestion**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/suggestion)
- [**Owner**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/owner)
- [**Description**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/description)
- [**Tag**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/tag)
- [**Assets**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/assets)
- [**CustomProperty**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/customproperty)
- [**EntityInfo**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/entityinfo)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/0c2eb140fc343b6cca806f369d73aac7e0ea1e6b from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/index.md, after:

---
title: Feed Schema | OpenMetadata Feed Schema and API Documentation
description: Schema for feeds including activity updates, discussions, and collaboration threads tied to metadata entities.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed
---

# Feed

This folder contains the following items:

- [**Domain**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/domain)
- [**TestCaseResult**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/testcaseresult)
- [**Thread**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/thread)
- [**Suggestion**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/suggestion)
- [**Owner**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/owner)
- [**Description**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/description)
- [**Tag**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/tag)
- [**Assets**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/assets)
- [**CustomProperty**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/customproperty)
- [**EntityInfo**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/feed/entityinfo)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
