content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/index.md, before:

---
title: Auth Schemas | OpenMetadata Authentication
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth
---

# Auth

This folder contains the following items:

- [**BasicLoginRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/basicloginrequest)
- [**BasicAuth**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/basicauth)
- [**RevokeToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/revoketoken)
- [**ServiceTokenEnum**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/servicetokenenum)
- [**PasswordResetRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/passwordresetrequest)
- [**LoginRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/loginrequest)
- [**TokenRefreshRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/tokenrefreshrequest)
- [**EmailRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/emailrequest)
- [**EmailVerificationToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/emailverificationtoken)
- [**LogoutRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/logoutrequest)
- [**RegistrationRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/registrationrequest)
- [**GenerateToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/generatetoken)
- [**SsoAuth**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/ssoauth)
- [**CreatePersonalToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/createpersonaltoken)
- [**PasswordResetToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/passwordresettoken)
- [**RefreshToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/refreshtoken)
- [**RevokePersonalToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/revokepersonaltoken)
- [**JwtAuth**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/jwtauth)
- [**PersonalAccessToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/personalaccesstoken)
- [**ChangePasswordRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/changepasswordrequest)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/0c2eb140fc343b6cca806f369d73aac7e0ea1e6b from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/index.md, after:

---
title: Auth Schemas | OpenMetadata Authentication
description: Schema for authentication metadata including login methods, identity providers, and credentials configuration.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth
---

# Auth

This folder contains the following items:

- [**BasicLoginRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/basicloginrequest)
- [**BasicAuth**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/basicauth)
- [**RevokeToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/revoketoken)
- [**ServiceTokenEnum**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/servicetokenenum)
- [**PasswordResetRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/passwordresetrequest)
- [**LoginRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/loginrequest)
- [**TokenRefreshRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/tokenrefreshrequest)
- [**EmailRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/emailrequest)
- [**EmailVerificationToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/emailverificationtoken)
- [**LogoutRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/logoutrequest)
- [**RegistrationRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/registrationrequest)
- [**GenerateToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/generatetoken)
- [**SsoAuth**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/ssoauth)
- [**CreatePersonalToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/createpersonaltoken)
- [**PasswordResetToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/passwordresettoken)
- [**RefreshToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/refreshtoken)
- [**RevokePersonalToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/revokepersonaltoken)
- [**JwtAuth**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/jwtauth)
- [**PersonalAccessToken**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/personalaccesstoken)
- [**ChangePasswordRequest**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/changepasswordrequest)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
