content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/dashboard/lightdashConnection.md, before:

---
title: Lightdash Connection | OpenMetadata Lightdash
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/dashboard/lightdashconnection
---

# LightdashConnection

*Lightdash Connection Config*

## Properties

- **`type`**: Service Type. Refer to *[#/definitions/lightdashType](#definitions/lightdashType)*. Default: `"Lightdash"`.
- **`hostPort`** *(string, format: uri)*: Address for your running Lightdash instance. Default: `"http://localhost:5000"`.
- **`apiKey`** *(string, format: password)*: The personal access token you can generate in the Lightdash app under the user settings.
- **`projectUUID`** *(string)*: The Project UUID for your Lightdash instance.
- **`spaceUUID`** *(string)*: The Space UUID for your Lightdash instance.
- **`proxyAuthentication`** *(string, format: password)*: Use if your Lightdash instance is behind a proxy like (Cloud IAP).
- **`supportsMetadataExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction)*.
## Definitions

- **`lightdashType`** *(string)*: Lightdash service type. Must be one of: `["Lightdash"]`. Default: `"Lightdash"`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/4c0b4582f938a644b3550a73b161f39c1e02f0b9 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/dashboard/lightdashConnection.md, after:

---
title: Lightdash Connection | OpenMetadata Lightdash
description: Define connection schema for Lightdash dashboards, supporting metadata ingestion and configuration for seamless reporting across your data platform.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/dashboard/lightdashconnection
---

# LightdashConnection

*Lightdash Connection Config*

## Properties

- **`type`**: Service Type. Refer to *[#/definitions/lightdashType](#definitions/lightdashType)*. Default: `"Lightdash"`.
- **`hostPort`** *(string, format: uri)*: Address for your running Lightdash instance. Default: `"http://localhost:5000"`.
- **`apiKey`** *(string, format: password)*: The personal access token you can generate in the Lightdash app under the user settings.
- **`projectUUID`** *(string)*: The Project UUID for your Lightdash instance.
- **`spaceUUID`** *(string)*: The Space UUID for your Lightdash instance.
- **`proxyAuthentication`** *(string, format: password)*: Use if your Lightdash instance is behind a proxy like (Cloud IAP).
- **`supportsMetadataExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction)*.
## Definitions

- **`lightdashType`** *(string)*: Lightdash service type. Must be one of: `["Lightdash"]`. Default: `"Lightdash"`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
