content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/dashboard/metabaseConnection.md, before:

---
title: Metabase Connection | OpenMetadata Metabase
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/dashboard/metabaseconnection
---

# MetabaseConnection

*Metabase Connection Config*

## Properties

- **`type`**: Service Type. Refer to *[#/definitions/metabaseType](#definitions/metabaseType)*. Default: `"Metabase"`.
- **`username`** *(string)*: Username to connect to Metabase. This user should have privileges to read all the metadata in Metabase.
- **`password`** *(string, format: password)*: Password to connect to Metabase.
- **`hostPort`** *(string, format: uri)*: Host and Port of the Metabase instance.
- **`supportsMetadataExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction)*.
## Definitions

- **`metabaseType`** *(string)*: Metabase service type. Must be one of: `["Metabase"]`. Default: `"Metabase"`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/4c0b4582f938a644b3550a73b161f39c1e02f0b9 from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/dashboard/metabaseConnection.md, after:

---
title: Metabase Connection | OpenMetadata Metabase
description: Metabase connection schema detailing host, credentials, and API setup for metadata ingestion.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections/dashboard/metabaseconnection
---

# MetabaseConnection

*Metabase Connection Config*

## Properties

- **`type`**: Service Type. Refer to *[#/definitions/metabaseType](#definitions/metabaseType)*. Default: `"Metabase"`.
- **`username`** *(string)*: Username to connect to Metabase. This user should have privileges to read all the metadata in Metabase.
- **`password`** *(string, format: password)*: Password to connect to Metabase.
- **`hostPort`** *(string, format: uri)*: Host and Port of the Metabase instance.
- **`supportsMetadataExtraction`**: Refer to *[../connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction](#/connectionBasicType.json#/definitions/supportsMetadataExtraction)*.
## Definitions

- **`metabaseType`** *(string)*: Metabase service type. Must be one of: `["Metabase"]`. Default: `"Metabase"`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
