content/deployment/security/keycloak/bare-metal.md, before:

---
title: Keycloak SSO for Bare Metal
slug: /deployment/security/keycloak/bare-metal
collate: false
---

# Keycloak SSO for Bare Metal

## Update conf/openmetadata.yaml

Once the `Client Id` is generated, add the `Client Id` in `openmetadata.yaml` file in `client_id` field.

Update the `providerName` config to the name you want to display in the `Sign In` button in the UI. For example, with the
following configuration with `providerName` set to `KeyCloak`, the users will see `Sign In with KeyCloak SSO` in the `Sign In`
page of the OpenMetadata UI.

The configuration below already uses the presets shown in the example of keycloak configurations, you can change to yours.
```yaml
authenticationConfiguration:
  provider: "custom-oidc"
  providerName: "KeyCloak"
  publicKeyUrls:
    - "http://localhost:8081/auth/realms/data-sec/protocol/openid-connect/certs"
    - "{your domain}/api/v1/system/config/jwks" # Update with your Domain and Make sure this "/api/v1/system/config/jwks" is always configured to enable JWT tokens
  authority: "http://localhost:8081/auth/realms/data-sec"
  clientId: "open-metadata"
  callbackUrl: "http://localhost:8585/callback"
```

Then, 
- Update `authorizerConfiguration` to add login names of the admin users in `adminPrincipals` section as shown below.
- Update the `principalDomain` to your company domain name.

{% note %}

Altering the order of claims in `jwtPrincipalClaims` may lead to problems when matching a user from a token with an existing user in the system. The mapping process relies on the specific order of claims, so changing it can result in inconsistencies or authentication failures, as the system cannot ensure correct user mapping with a new claim order.

{% /note %}

```yaml
authorizerConfiguration:
  className: "org.openmetadata.service.security.DefaultAuthorizer"
  # JWT Filter
  containerRequestFilter: "org.openmetadata.service.security.JwtFilter"
  adminPrincipals:
    - "admin-user"
  principalDomain: "open-metadata.org"
```

{% partial file="/v1.5/deployment/configure-ingestion.md" /%}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/79af8bf78b8a87eebf7352bdfcd0969a2f98a18a from refs/heads/main

content/deployment/security/keycloak/bare-metal.md, after:

---
title: Keycloak SSO for Bare Metal
slug: /deployment/security/keycloak/bare-metal
collate: false
---

# Keycloak SSO for Bare Metal

## Update conf/openmetadata.yaml

Once the `Client Id` is generated, add the `Client Id` in `openmetadata.yaml` file in `client_id` field.

Update the `providerName` config to the name you want to display in the `Sign In` button in the UI. For example, with the
following configuration with `providerName` set to `KeyCloak`, the users will see `Sign In with KeyCloak SSO` in the `Sign In`
page of the OpenMetadata UI.

The configuration below already uses the presets shown in the example of keycloak configurations, you can change to yours.
```yaml
authenticationConfiguration:
  provider: "custom-oidc"
  providerName: "KeyCloak"
  publicKeyUrls:
    - "http://localhost:8081/auth/realms/data-sec/protocol/openid-connect/certs"
    - "https://{your domain}/api/v1/system/config/jwks" # Update with your Domain and Make sure this "/api/v1/system/config/jwks" is always configured to enable JWT tokens
  authority: "http://localhost:8081/auth/realms/data-sec"
  clientId: "open-metadata"
  callbackUrl: "https://{your domain}/callback"
```

Then, 
- Update `authorizerConfiguration` to add login names of the admin users in `adminPrincipals` section as shown below.
- Update the `principalDomain` to your company domain name.

{% note %}

`AUTHENTICATION_PUBLIC_KEYS` and `AUTHENTICATION_CALLBACK_URL` refers to https://{your domain} this is referring to your OpenMetdata installation domain name
and please make sure to correctly put http or https depending on your installation.

{% /note %}

{% note %}

Altering the order of claims in `jwtPrincipalClaims` may lead to problems when matching a user from a token with an existing user in the system. The mapping process relies on the specific order of claims, so changing it can result in inconsistencies or authentication failures, as the system cannot ensure correct user mapping with a new claim order.

{% /note %}

```yaml
authorizerConfiguration:
  className: "org.openmetadata.service.security.DefaultAuthorizer"
  # JWT Filter
  containerRequestFilter: "org.openmetadata.service.security.JwtFilter"
  adminPrincipals:
    - "admin-user"
  principalDomain: "open-metadata.org"
```

{% partial file="/v1.5/deployment/configure-ingestion.md" /%}
