content/connectors/database/db2/index.md, before:

---
title: DB2 Connector | OpenMetadata Database Integration Guide
slug: /connectors/database/db2
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="DB2"
stage="PROD"
platform="OpenMetadata"
availableFeatures=["Metadata", "Data Profiler", "Data Quality", "View Lineage", "View Column-level Lineage", "dbt", "Sample Data"]
unavailableFeatures=["Query Usage", "Owners", "Tags", "Stored Procedures"]
/ %}

{%important%}
OpenMetadata doesn't ship DB2 connector in the ingestion contain by default.
Please make sure you install the below Python package in the ingestion container if you are planning on running DB2 Connector.

If you are running this as part of docker
```code
docker exec -it openmetadata_ingestion pip install '.[db2]'
```

Using python pip, Please make sure you provide appropriate version of ingestion in below command
```code
 pip install 'openmetadata-ingestion[db2]==1.2.4.0'
```

{%/important%}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the DB2 connector.

Configure and schedule DB2 metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Lineage](/how-to-guides/data-lineage/workflow)
- [Data Profiler](/how-to-guides/data-quality-observability/profiler/workflow)
- [Data Quality](/how-to-guides/data-quality-observability/quality)
- [dbt Integration](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt)
- [Troubleshooting](/connectors/database/db2/troubleshooting)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/ingestion-modes-tiles.md" variables={yamlPath: "/connectors/database/db2/yaml"} /%}

## Requirements

To create a new Db2 user please follow the guidelines mentioned [here](https://www.ibm.com/docs/ko/samfess/8.2.0?topic=schema-creating-users-manually)

Db2 user must have the below permissions to ingest the metadata:

- `SELECT` privilege on `SYSCAT.SCHEMATA` to fetch the metadata of schemas.
```sql
-- Grant SELECT on tables for schema metadata
GRANT SELECT ON SYSCAT.SCHEMATA TO USER_NAME;
```

- `SELECT` privilege on `SYSCAT.TABLES` to fetch the metadata of tables.
```sql
-- Grant SELECT on tables for table metadata
GRANT SELECT ON SYSCAT.TABLES TO USER_NAME;
```

- `SELECT` privilege on `SYSCAT.VIEWS` to fetch the metadata of views.
```sql
-- Grant SELECT on tables for view metadata
GRANT SELECT ON SYSCAT.VIEWS TO USER_NAME;
```

### Profiler & Data Quality

Executing the profiler workflow or data quality tests, will require the user to have `SELECT` permission on the tables/schemas where the profiler/tests will be executed. More information on the profiler workflow setup can be found [here](/how-to-guides/data-quality-observability/profiler/workflow) and data quality tests [here](/how-to-guides/data-quality-observability/quality).

## Metadata Ingestion
{% partial 
  file="/v1.8/connectors/metadata-ingestion-ui.md" 
  variables={
    connector: "DB2", 
    selectServicePath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/db2/select-service.png",
    addNewServicePath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/db2/add-new-service.png",
    serviceConnectionPath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/db2/service-connection.png",
} 
/%}

{% stepsContainer %}
{% extraContent parentTagName="stepsContainer" %}

#### Connection Details

- **Username**: Specify the User to connect to DB2. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **Password**: Password to connect to DB2.
- **database**: Database of the data source.
- **Host and Port**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your DB2 deployment in the Host and Port field.
- **License File Name**: License file name in case the license is required for connection.
- **License**: Contents of your license file if applicable, make sure to replace new lines with `\n` before pasting it here.

{% note %}
If you are using DB2 for IBM i:

- From advanced config you need to chose `ibmi` scheme
- In Host and Port you should not add the Port Number.
{% /note %}

{% note %}
If you have a **db2jcc_license_cisuz.jar** file, it will not work with **ibm_db**. This file is a **Db2 Connect** license for the Java Driver.  
For **non-Java drivers**, such as the Python Client used in OpenMetadata ingestion, a **Db2 Connect** client-side license is required, typically named **db2con*.lic**.  

The **db2jcc_license_cisuz.jar** is specifically for Java-based clients, whereas OpenMetadata ingestion operates with a Python Client, making the `.jar` file incompatible.  
 
For activating a **non-Java license** for Db2 Connect **Application Server Edition**, **Advanced Application Server Edition**, **Enterprise Edition**, or **Trial**, follow these steps:  
- Download the **license activation kit** from IBM Passport Advantage: [IBM PPA](https://www.ibm.com/software/passportadvantage/pao_customer.html).  
- Unzip the package and locate the **non-Java license file** (e.g., `db2consv_ee.lic`).  
- Apply the `.lic` file to activate the license.

For further reference, check this IBM post: [Everything About Db2 Connect Licensing](https://community.ibm.com/community/user/datamanagement/blogs/shilu-mathai2/2023/05/05/everything-about-db2-connect-licensing).  
{% /note %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/database/advanced-configuration.md" /%}

{% /extraContent %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/test-connection.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/database/configure-ingestion.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/ingestion-schedule-and-deploy.md" /%}

{% /stepsContainer %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/database/related.md" /%}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/bd5955fca2d8eb38387225be5598d4b092df7623 from refs/heads/main

content/connectors/database/db2/index.md, after:

---
title: DB2 Connector | OpenMetadata Database Integration Guide
description: Connect DB2 databases to OpenMetadata with our comprehensive connector guide. Step-by-step setup, configuration, and metadata extraction instructions.
slug: /connectors/database/db2
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="DB2"
stage="PROD"
platform="OpenMetadata"
availableFeatures=["Metadata", "Data Profiler", "Data Quality", "View Lineage", "View Column-level Lineage", "dbt", "Sample Data"]
unavailableFeatures=["Query Usage", "Owners", "Tags", "Stored Procedures"]
/ %}

{%important%}
OpenMetadata doesn't ship DB2 connector in the ingestion contain by default.
Please make sure you install the below Python package in the ingestion container if you are planning on running DB2 Connector.

If you are running this as part of docker
```code
docker exec -it openmetadata_ingestion pip install '.[db2]'
```

Using python pip, Please make sure you provide appropriate version of ingestion in below command
```code
 pip install 'openmetadata-ingestion[db2]==1.2.4.0'
```

{%/important%}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the DB2 connector.

Configure and schedule DB2 metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Lineage](/how-to-guides/data-lineage/workflow)
- [Data Profiler](/how-to-guides/data-quality-observability/profiler/workflow)
- [Data Quality](/how-to-guides/data-quality-observability/quality)
- [dbt Integration](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt)
- [Troubleshooting](/connectors/database/db2/troubleshooting)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/ingestion-modes-tiles.md" variables={yamlPath: "/connectors/database/db2/yaml"} /%}

## Requirements

To create a new Db2 user please follow the guidelines mentioned [here](https://www.ibm.com/docs/ko/samfess/8.2.0?topic=schema-creating-users-manually)

Db2 user must have the below permissions to ingest the metadata:

- `SELECT` privilege on `SYSCAT.SCHEMATA` to fetch the metadata of schemas.
```sql
-- Grant SELECT on tables for schema metadata
GRANT SELECT ON SYSCAT.SCHEMATA TO USER_NAME;
```

- `SELECT` privilege on `SYSCAT.TABLES` to fetch the metadata of tables.
```sql
-- Grant SELECT on tables for table metadata
GRANT SELECT ON SYSCAT.TABLES TO USER_NAME;
```

- `SELECT` privilege on `SYSCAT.VIEWS` to fetch the metadata of views.
```sql
-- Grant SELECT on tables for view metadata
GRANT SELECT ON SYSCAT.VIEWS TO USER_NAME;
```

### Profiler & Data Quality

Executing the profiler workflow or data quality tests, will require the user to have `SELECT` permission on the tables/schemas where the profiler/tests will be executed. More information on the profiler workflow setup can be found [here](/how-to-guides/data-quality-observability/profiler/workflow) and data quality tests [here](/how-to-guides/data-quality-observability/quality).

## Metadata Ingestion
{% partial 
  file="/v1.8/connectors/metadata-ingestion-ui.md" 
  variables={
    connector: "DB2", 
    selectServicePath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/db2/select-service.png",
    addNewServicePath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/db2/add-new-service.png",
    serviceConnectionPath: "/images/v1.8/connectors/db2/service-connection.png",
} 
/%}

{% stepsContainer %}
{% extraContent parentTagName="stepsContainer" %}

#### Connection Details

- **Username**: Specify the User to connect to DB2. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **Password**: Password to connect to DB2.
- **database**: Database of the data source.
- **Host and Port**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your DB2 deployment in the Host and Port field.
- **License File Name**: License file name in case the license is required for connection.
- **License**: Contents of your license file if applicable, make sure to replace new lines with `\n` before pasting it here.

{% note %}
If you are using DB2 for IBM i:

- From advanced config you need to chose `ibmi` scheme
- In Host and Port you should not add the Port Number.
{% /note %}

{% note %}
If you have a **db2jcc_license_cisuz.jar** file, it will not work with **ibm_db**. This file is a **Db2 Connect** license for the Java Driver.  
For **non-Java drivers**, such as the Python Client used in OpenMetadata ingestion, a **Db2 Connect** client-side license is required, typically named **db2con*.lic**.  

The **db2jcc_license_cisuz.jar** is specifically for Java-based clients, whereas OpenMetadata ingestion operates with a Python Client, making the `.jar` file incompatible.  
 
For activating a **non-Java license** for Db2 Connect **Application Server Edition**, **Advanced Application Server Edition**, **Enterprise Edition**, or **Trial**, follow these steps:  
- Download the **license activation kit** from IBM Passport Advantage: [IBM PPA](https://www.ibm.com/software/passportadvantage/pao_customer.html).  
- Unzip the package and locate the **non-Java license file** (e.g., `db2consv_ee.lic`).  
- Apply the `.lic` file to activate the license.

For further reference, check this IBM post: [Everything About Db2 Connect Licensing](https://community.ibm.com/community/user/datamanagement/blogs/shilu-mathai2/2023/05/05/everything-about-db2-connect-licensing).  
{% /note %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/database/advanced-configuration.md" /%}

{% /extraContent %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/test-connection.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/database/configure-ingestion.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/ingestion-schedule-and-deploy.md" /%}

{% /stepsContainer %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/database/related.md" /%}
