content/developers/index.md, before:

---
title: OpenMetadata Developers | Developer Resources Overview
slug: /developers
---

# OpenMetadata Development

Here are the articles in this section:

{% inlineCalloutContainer %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Architecture"
    href="/developers/architecture" %}
    Overview of the high level architecture of OpenMetadata 
  {% /inlineCallout %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Open Source Community"
    href="/developers/open-source-community" %}
    Discover support and meetings about OpenMetadata development 
  {% /inlineCallout %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Contribute"
    href="/developers/contribute" %}
    Explore how you can contribute to the ongoing development of OpenMetadata
  {% /inlineCallout %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Webhooks"
    href="/developers/webhooks" %}
    Presentation on how to setup webhooks within OpenMetadata
  {% /inlineCallout %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Bots"
    href="/developers/bots" %}
    Learn how to setup ingestion bots.
  {% /inlineCallout %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Language Support"
    href="/developers/how-to-add-language-support" %}
    Learn how to add language support in OpenMetadata
  {% /inlineCallout %}
    {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Custom Property to an Entity with API"
    href="/developers/how-to-add-custom-property-to-an-entity" %}
    Create custom properties to data assets using API.
  {% /inlineCallout %}
{% /inlineCalloutContainer %}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/0c2eb140fc343b6cca806f369d73aac7e0ea1e6b from refs/heads/main

content/developers/index.md, after:

---
title: OpenMetadata Developers | Developer Resources Overview
description: Learn how to build, extend, and contribute to the metadata platform using developer best practices and APIs.
slug: /developers
---

# OpenMetadata Development

Here are the articles in this section:

{% inlineCalloutContainer %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Architecture"
    href="/developers/architecture" %}
    Overview of the high level architecture of OpenMetadata 
  {% /inlineCallout %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Open Source Community"
    href="/developers/open-source-community" %}
    Discover support and meetings about OpenMetadata development 
  {% /inlineCallout %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Contribute"
    href="/developers/contribute" %}
    Explore how you can contribute to the ongoing development of OpenMetadata
  {% /inlineCallout %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Webhooks"
    href="/developers/webhooks" %}
    Presentation on how to setup webhooks within OpenMetadata
  {% /inlineCallout %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Bots"
    href="/developers/bots" %}
    Learn how to setup ingestion bots.
  {% /inlineCallout %}
  {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Language Support"
    href="/developers/how-to-add-language-support" %}
    Learn how to add language support in OpenMetadata
  {% /inlineCallout %}
    {% inlineCallout
    color="violet-70"
    icon="play_arrow"
    bold="Custom Property to an Entity with API"
    href="/developers/how-to-add-custom-property-to-an-entity" %}
    Create custom properties to data assets using API.
  {% /inlineCallout %}
{% /inlineCalloutContainer %}
