content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/index.md, before:

---
title: Services Schema | OpenMetadata Services Schema Details
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services
---

# Services

This folder contains the following items:

- [**StorageService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/storageservice)
- [**ServiceType**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/servicetype)
- [**SearchService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/searchservice)
- [**PipelineService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/pipelineservice)
- [**MetadataService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/metadataservice)
- [**DatabaseService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/databaseservice)
- [**DashboardService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/dashboardservice)
- [**Connections**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections)
- [**ApiService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/apiservice)
- [**IngestionPipelines**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/ingestionpipelines)
- [**MlmodelService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/mlmodelservice)
- [**MessagingService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/messagingservice)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/0c2eb140fc343b6cca806f369d73aac7e0ea1e6b from refs/heads/main

content/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/index.md, after:

---
title: Services Schema | OpenMetadata Services Schema Details
description: Schema for service-related metadata covering databases, dashboards, pipelines, and messaging platforms.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services
---

# Services

This folder contains the following items:

- [**StorageService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/storageservice)
- [**ServiceType**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/servicetype)
- [**SearchService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/searchservice)
- [**PipelineService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/pipelineservice)
- [**MetadataService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/metadataservice)
- [**DatabaseService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/databaseservice)
- [**DashboardService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/dashboardservice)
- [**Connections**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/connections)
- [**ApiService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/apiservice)
- [**IngestionPipelines**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/ingestionpipelines)
- [**MlmodelService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/mlmodelservice)
- [**MessagingService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/entity/services/messagingservice)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
