content/how-to-guides/data-governance/classification/Auto Classification/external-workflow.md, before:

---
title: External Auto Classification Workflow
slug: /how-to-guides/data-governance/classification/auto/external-workflow
---

# Auto Classification Workflow Configuration

The Auto Classification Workflow enables automatic tagging of sensitive information within databases. Below are the configuration parameters available in the **Service Classification Pipeline JSON**.

## Pipeline Configuration Parameters

| **Parameter**                | **Description**                                                                 | **Type**  | **Default Value**      |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-------------------------|
| `type`                       | Specifies the pipeline type.                                                    | String    | `AutoClassification`    |
| `classificationFilterPattern`| Regex to compute metrics for tables matching specific tags, tiers, or glossary patterns. | Object    | N/A                     |
| `schemaFilterPattern`         | Regex to fetch schemas matching the specified pattern.                         | Object    | N/A                     |
| `tableFilterPattern`          | Regex to exclude tables matching the specified pattern.                        | Object    | N/A                     |
| `databaseFilterPattern`       | Regex to fetch databases matching the specified pattern.                       | Object    | N/A                     |
| `includeViews`                | Option to include or exclude views during metadata ingestion.                  | Boolean   | `true`                  |
| `useFqnForFiltering`          | Determines whether filtering is applied to the Fully Qualified Name (FQN) instead of raw names. | Boolean   | `false`                 |
| `storeSampleData`             | Option to enable or disable storing sample data for each table.                | Boolean   | `true`                  |
| `enableAutoClassification`    | Enables automatic tagging of columns that might contain sensitive information. | Boolean   | `false`                 |
| `confidence`                  | Confidence level for tagging columns as sensitive. Value ranges from 0 to 100. | Number    | `80`                    |
| `sampleDataCount`             | Number of sample rows to ingest when Store Sample Data is enabled.             | Integer   | `50`                    |

## Key Parameters Explained

### `enableAutoClassification`
- Set this to `true` to enable automatic detection of sensitive columns (e.g., PII).
- Applies pattern recognition and tagging based on predefined criteria.

### `confidence`
- Confidence level for tagging sensitive columns:
  - A higher confidence value (e.g., `90`) reduces false positives but may miss some sensitive data.
  - A lower confidence value (e.g., `70`) identifies more sensitive columns but may result in false positives.

### `storeSampleData`
- Controls whether sample rows are stored during ingestion.
- If enabled, the specified number of rows (`sampleDataCount`) will be fetched for each table.

### `useFqnForFiltering`
- When set to `true`, filtering patterns will be applied to the Fully Qualified Name of a table (e.g., `service_name.db_name.schema_name.table_name`).
- When set to `false`, filtering applies only to raw table names.

## Sample Auto Classification Workflow yaml

```yaml
source:
  type: bigquery
  serviceName: local_bigquery
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: BigQuery
      credentials:
        gcpConfig:
          type: service_account
          projectId: my-project-id-1234
          privateKeyId: privateKeyID
          privateKey: "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nmySuperSecurePrivateKey==\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n"
          clientEmail: client@email.secure
          clientId: "1234567890"
          authUri: https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth
          tokenUri: https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token
          authProviderX509CertUrl: https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs
          clientX509CertUrl: https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: AutoClassification
      storeSampleData: true
      enableAutoClassification: true
      databaseFilterPattern:
        includes: 
          - hello-world-1234
      schemaFilterPattern:
        includes: 
          - super_schema
      tableFilterPattern:
        includes: 
          - abc

processor:
   type: "orm-profiler"
   config:
    tableConfig:
      - fullyQualifiedName: local_bigquery.hello-world-1234.super_schema.abc
        profileSample: 85
        partitionConfig:
          partitionQueryDuration: 180
        columnConfig:
          excludeColumns:
            - a
            - b

sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
#  loggerLevel: INFO # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: http://localhost:8585/api
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: "eyJraWQiOiJHYjM4OWEtOWY3Ni1nZGpzLWE5MmotMDI0MmJrOTQzNTYiLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJhZG1pbiIsImlzQm90IjpmYWxzZSwiaXNzIjoib3Blbi1tZXRhZGF0YS5vcmciLCJpYXQiOjE2NjM5Mzg0NjIsImVtYWlsIjoiYWRtaW5Ab3Blbm1ldGFkYXRhLm9yZyJ9.tS8um_5DKu7HgzGBzS1VTA5uUjKWOCU0B_j08WXBiEC0mr0zNREkqVfwFDD-d24HlNEbrqioLsBuFRiwIWKc1m_ZlVQbG7P36RUxhuv2vbSp80FKyNM-Tj93FDzq91jsyNmsQhyNv_fNr3TXfzzSPjHt8Go0FMMP66weoKMgW2PbXlhVKwEuXUHyakLLzewm9UMeQaEiRzhiTMU3UkLXcKbYEJJvfNFcLwSl9W8JCO_l0Yj3ud-qt_nQYEZwqW6u5nfdQllN133iikV4fM5QZsMCnm8Rq1mvLR0y9bmJiD7fwM1tmJ791TUWqmKaTnP49U493VanKpUAfzIiOiIbhg"
```

## Workflow Execution

### To Execute the Auto Classification Workflow:

1. **Create a Pipeline**  
   - Configure the Auto Classification JSON as demonstrated in the provided configuration example.

2. **Run the Ingestion Pipeline**  
   - Use OpenMetadata or an external scheduler like Argo to trigger the pipeline execution.

3. **Validate Results**  
   - Verify the metadata and tags applied to sensitive columns in the OpenMetadata UI.

### Expected Outcomes

- **Automatic Tagging:**  
  Columns containing sensitive information (e.g., names, emails, SSNs) are automatically tagged based on predefined confidence levels.

- **Enhanced Visibility:** 
  Gain improved visibility and classification of sensitive data within your databases.

- **Sample Data Integration:**  
  Store sample data to provide better insights during profiling and testing workflows.

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/fbd47e4ed8d6ed9ccab7f7c2e96d010a6ca0b48c from refs/heads/main

content/how-to-guides/data-governance/classification/Auto Classification/external-workflow.md, after:

---
title: External Auto Classification Workflow
slug: /how-to-guides/data-governance/classification/auto/external-workflow
---

# Auto Classification Workflow Configuration

The Auto Classification Workflow enables automatic tagging of sensitive information within databases. Below are the configuration parameters available in the **Service Classification Pipeline JSON**.

## Pipeline Configuration Parameters

| **Parameter**                | **Description**                                                                 | **Type**  | **Default Value**      |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-------------------------|
| `type`                       | Specifies the pipeline type.                                                    | String    | `AutoClassification`    |
| `classificationFilterPattern`| Regex to compute metrics for tables matching specific tags, tiers, or glossary patterns. | Object    | N/A                     |
| `schemaFilterPattern`         | Regex to fetch schemas matching the specified pattern.                         | Object    | N/A                     |
| `tableFilterPattern`          | Regex to exclude tables matching the specified pattern.                        | Object    | N/A                     |
| `databaseFilterPattern`       | Regex to fetch databases matching the specified pattern.                       | Object    | N/A                     |
| `includeViews`                | Option to include or exclude views during metadata ingestion.                  | Boolean   | `true`                  |
| `useFqnForFiltering`          | Determines whether filtering is applied to the Fully Qualified Name (FQN) instead of raw names. | Boolean   | `false`                 |
| `storeSampleData`             | Option to enable or disable storing sample data for each table.                | Boolean   | `true`                  |
| `enableAutoClassification`    | Enables automatic tagging of columns that might contain sensitive information. | Boolean   | `false`                 |
| `confidence`                  | Confidence level for tagging columns as sensitive. Value ranges from 0 to 100. | Number    | `80`                    |
| `sampleDataCount`             | Number of sample rows to ingest when Store Sample Data is enabled.             | Integer   | `50`                    |

## Key Parameters Explained

### `enableAutoClassification`
- Set this to `true` to enable automatic detection of sensitive columns (e.g., PII).
- Applies pattern recognition and tagging based on predefined criteria.

### `confidence`
- Confidence level for tagging sensitive columns:
  - A higher confidence value (e.g., `90`) reduces false positives but may miss some sensitive data.
  - A lower confidence value (e.g., `70`) identifies more sensitive columns but may result in false positives.

### `storeSampleData`
- Controls whether sample rows are stored during ingestion.
- If enabled, the specified number of rows (`sampleDataCount`) will be fetched for each table.

### `useFqnForFiltering`
- When set to `true`, filtering patterns will be applied to the Fully Qualified Name of a table (e.g., `service_name.db_name.schema_name.table_name`).
- When set to `false`, filtering applies only to raw table names.

## Auto Classification Workflow Execution  

To execute the **Auto Classification Workflow**, follow the steps below:  

### 1. Install the Required Python Package  
Ensure you have the correct OpenMetadata ingestion package installed, including the **PII Processor** module:  

```bash
pip install "openmetadata-ingestion[pii-processor]"
```
## 2. Define and Execute the Python Workflow
Instead of using a YAML configuration, use the AutoClassificationWorkflow from OpenMetadata to trigger the ingestion process programmatically.

## Sample Auto Classification Workflow yaml

```yaml
source:
  type: bigquery
  serviceName: local_bigquery
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: BigQuery
      credentials:
        gcpConfig:
          type: service_account
          projectId: my-project-id-1234
          privateKeyId: privateKeyID
          privateKey: "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nmySuperSecurePrivateKey==\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n"
          clientEmail: client@email.secure
          clientId: "1234567890"
          authUri: https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth
          tokenUri: https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token
          authProviderX509CertUrl: https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs
          clientX509CertUrl: https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: AutoClassification
      storeSampleData: true
      enableAutoClassification: true
      databaseFilterPattern:
        includes: 
          - hello-world-1234
      schemaFilterPattern:
        includes: 
          - super_schema
      tableFilterPattern:
        includes: 
          - abc

processor:
   type: "orm-profiler"
   config:
    tableConfig:
      - fullyQualifiedName: local_bigquery.hello-world-1234.super_schema.abc
        profileSample: 85
        partitionConfig:
          partitionQueryDuration: 180
        columnConfig:
          excludeColumns:
            - a
            - b

sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
#  loggerLevel: INFO # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: http://localhost:8585/api
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: "eyJraWQiOiJHYjM4OWEtOWY3Ni1nZGpzLWE5MmotMDI0MmJrOTQzNTYiLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJhZG1pbiIsImlzQm90IjpmYWxzZSwiaXNzIjoib3Blbi1tZXRhZGF0YS5vcmciLCJpYXQiOjE2NjM5Mzg0NjIsImVtYWlsIjoiYWRtaW5Ab3Blbm1ldGFkYXRhLm9yZyJ9.tS8um_5DKu7HgzGBzS1VTA5uUjKWOCU0B_j08WXBiEC0mr0zNREkqVfwFDD-d24HlNEbrqioLsBuFRiwIWKc1m_ZlVQbG7P36RUxhuv2vbSp80FKyNM-Tj93FDzq91jsyNmsQhyNv_fNr3TXfzzSPjHt8Go0FMMP66weoKMgW2PbXlhVKwEuXUHyakLLzewm9UMeQaEiRzhiTMU3UkLXcKbYEJJvfNFcLwSl9W8JCO_l0Yj3ud-qt_nQYEZwqW6u5nfdQllN133iikV4fM5QZsMCnm8Rq1mvLR0y9bmJiD7fwM1tmJ791TUWqmKaTnP49U493VanKpUAfzIiOiIbhg"
```

### 3. Expected Outcome
- Automatically classifies and tags sensitive data based on predefined patterns and confidence levels.
- Improves metadata enrichment and enhances data governance practices.
- Provides visibility into sensitive data across databases.
This approach ensures that the Auto Classification Workflow is executed correctly using the appropriate OpenMetadata ingestion framework.

{% partial file="/v1.6/connectors/yaml/auto-classification.md" variables={connector: "snowflake"} /%}

## Workflow Execution

### To Execute the Auto Classification Workflow:

1. **Create a Pipeline**  
   - Configure the Auto Classification JSON as demonstrated in the provided configuration example.

2. **Run the Ingestion Pipeline**  
   - Use OpenMetadata or an external scheduler like Argo to trigger the pipeline execution.

3. **Validate Results**  
   - Verify the metadata and tags applied to sensitive columns in the OpenMetadata UI.

### Expected Outcomes

- **Automatic Tagging:**  
  Columns containing sensitive information (e.g., names, emails, SSNs) are automatically tagged based on predefined confidence levels.

- **Enhanced Visibility:** 
  Gain improved visibility and classification of sensitive data within your databases.

- **Sample Data Integration:**  
  Store sample data to provide better insights during profiling and testing workflows.
