content/connectors/database/synapse/yaml.md, before:

---
title: Run the Synapse Connector Externally
slug: /connectors/database/synapse/yaml
collate: true
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="Synapse"
stage="PROD"
platform="Collate"
availableFeatures=["Metadata", "Query Usage", "Lineage", "Column-level Lineage", "Data Profiler", "Data Quality", "Stored Procedures", "dbt", "Sample Data"]
unavailableFeatures=["Owners", "Tags"]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Synapse connector.

Configure and schedule Synapse metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Data Profiler](#data-profiler)
- [Data Quality](#data-quality)
- [dbt Integration](#dbt-integration)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/external-ingestion-deployment.md" /%}

## Requirements

Make sure if you have whitelisted ingestion container IP on Azure SQL firewall rules. Checkout [this](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/firewall-configure?view=azuresql#use-the-azure-portal-to-manage-server-level-ip-firewall-rules) document on how to whitelist your IP using azure portal.

Synapse database user must grant `SELECT` privilege to fetch the metadata of tables and views.

```sql
-- Create a new user
-- More details https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/create-user-transact-sql?view=sql-server-ver16
CREATE USER Mary WITH PASSWORD = '********';
-- Grant SELECT on table
GRANT SELECT TO Mary;
```

### Python Requirements

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/python-requirements.md" /%}

To run the Synapse ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[synapse]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/azureSQLConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Synapse.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Synapse:

{% codePreview %}

{% codeInfoContainer %}
#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

{% codeInfo srNumber=1 %}

**username**: Specify the User to connect to Synapse. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=2 %}

**password**: Password to connect to Synapse.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=3 %}

**hostPort**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your Synapse deployment in the Host and Port field.

{% /codeInfo %}


{% codeInfo srNumber=4 %}

**database**: The database of the data source is an optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single database. If left blank, OpenMetadata ingestion attempts to scan all the databases.

{% /codeInfo %}


{% codeInfo srNumber=5 %}

**driver**: Connecting to Synapse requires ODBC driver to be installed. Specify ODBC driver name in the field.
You can download the ODBC driver from [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/odbc/download-odbc-driver-for-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver16).In case of docker or kubernetes deployment this driver comes out of the box with version  `ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server`.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=8 %}

**Authentication Mode**:

1. **Authentication**:
   - The `authentication` parameter determines the method of authentication when connecting to Synapse using ODBC (Open Database Connectivity).
   - If you select **"Active Directory Password"**, you'll need to provide the password associated with your Azure Active Directory account.
   - Alternatively, if you choose **"Active Directory Integrated"**, the connection will use the credentials of the currently logged-in user. This mode ensures secure and seamless connections with Synapse.

2. **Encrypt**:
   - The `encrypt` setting in the connection string pertains to data encryption during communication with Synapse.
   - When enabled, it ensures that data exchanged between your application and the database is encrypted, enhancing security.

3. **Trust Server Certificate**:
   - The `trustServerCertificate` option also relates to security.
   - When set to true, your application will trust the server's SSL certificate without validation. Use this cautiously, as it bypasses certificate validation checks.

4. **Connection Timeout**:
   - The `connectionTimeout` parameter specifies the maximum time (in seconds) that your application will wait while attempting to establish a connection to Synapse.
   - If the connection cannot be established within this timeframe, an error will be raised.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config-def.md" /%}

#### Advanced Configuration

{% codeInfo srNumber=6 %}

**Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=7 %}

**Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

- In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`

{% /codeInfo %}

{% /codeInfoContainer %}

{% codeBlock fileName="filename.yaml" %}

```yaml {% isCodeBlock=true %}
source:
  type: synapse
  serviceName: local_synapse
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Synapse
```
```yaml {% srNumber=1 %}
      username: username
```
```yaml {% srNumber=2 %}
      password: password
```
```yaml {% srNumber=3 %}
      hostPort: hostPort
```
```yaml {% srNumber=4 %}
      # database: database_name
```
```yaml {% srNumber=5 %}
      # driver: ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server (default)
```
```yaml {% srNumber=8 %}
      # authenticationMode:
      #   authentication: ActiveDirectoryPassword #ActiveDirectoryIntegrated
      #   encrypt: true
      #   trustServerCertificate: false
      #   connectionTimeout: 130
```
```yaml {% srNumber=6 %}
      connectionOptions:
        key: value
```
```yaml {% srNumber=7 %}
      # connectionArguments:
      #   key: value
```

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config.md" /%}

{% /codeBlock %}

{% /codePreview %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-cli.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-profiler.md" variables={connector: "synapse"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/auto-classification.md" variables={connector: "synapse"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-quality.md" /%}

## dbt Integration

{% tilesContainer %}

{% tile
  icon="mediation"
  title="dbt Integration"
  description="Learn more about how to ingest dbt models' definitions and their lineage."
  link="/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt" /%}

{% /tilesContainer %}

## Related

{% tilesContainer %}

{% tile
   icon="mediation"
   title="Configure Ingestion Externally"
   description="Deploy, configure, and manage the ingestion workflows externally."
   link="/deployment/ingestion"
 / %}

{% /tilesContainer %}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/9ab2d9d592c44388dfdf8ba250b03d5d876dd4c9 from refs/heads/main

content/connectors/database/synapse/yaml.md, after:

---
title: Run the Synapse Connector Externally
description: Use YAML to extract metadata from Azure Synapse and visualize data structures and dependencies.
slug: /connectors/database/synapse/yaml
collate: true
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="Synapse"
stage="PROD"
platform="Collate"
availableFeatures=["Metadata", "Query Usage", "Lineage", "Column-level Lineage", "Data Profiler", "Data Quality", "Stored Procedures", "dbt", "Sample Data"]
unavailableFeatures=["Owners", "Tags"]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Synapse connector.

Configure and schedule Synapse metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Data Profiler](#data-profiler)
- [Data Quality](#data-quality)
- [dbt Integration](#dbt-integration)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/external-ingestion-deployment.md" /%}

## Requirements

Make sure if you have whitelisted ingestion container IP on Azure SQL firewall rules. Checkout [this](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/firewall-configure?view=azuresql#use-the-azure-portal-to-manage-server-level-ip-firewall-rules) document on how to whitelist your IP using azure portal.

Synapse database user must grant `SELECT` privilege to fetch the metadata of tables and views.

```sql
-- Create a new user
-- More details https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/statements/create-user-transact-sql?view=sql-server-ver16
CREATE USER Mary WITH PASSWORD = '********';
-- Grant SELECT on table
GRANT SELECT TO Mary;
```

### Python Requirements

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/python-requirements.md" /%}

To run the Synapse ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[synapse]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/azureSQLConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Synapse.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Synapse:

{% codePreview %}

{% codeInfoContainer %}
#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

{% codeInfo srNumber=1 %}

**username**: Specify the User to connect to Synapse. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=2 %}

**password**: Password to connect to Synapse.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=3 %}

**hostPort**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your Synapse deployment in the Host and Port field.

{% /codeInfo %}


{% codeInfo srNumber=4 %}

**database**: The database of the data source is an optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single database. If left blank, OpenMetadata ingestion attempts to scan all the databases.

{% /codeInfo %}


{% codeInfo srNumber=5 %}

**driver**: Connecting to Synapse requires ODBC driver to be installed. Specify ODBC driver name in the field.
You can download the ODBC driver from [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/odbc/download-odbc-driver-for-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver16).In case of docker or kubernetes deployment this driver comes out of the box with version  `ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server`.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=8 %}

**Authentication Mode**:

1. **Authentication**:
   - The `authentication` parameter determines the method of authentication when connecting to Synapse using ODBC (Open Database Connectivity).
   - If you select **"Active Directory Password"**, you'll need to provide the password associated with your Azure Active Directory account.
   - Alternatively, if you choose **"Active Directory Integrated"**, the connection will use the credentials of the currently logged-in user. This mode ensures secure and seamless connections with Synapse.

2. **Encrypt**:
   - The `encrypt` setting in the connection string pertains to data encryption during communication with Synapse.
   - When enabled, it ensures that data exchanged between your application and the database is encrypted, enhancing security.

3. **Trust Server Certificate**:
   - The `trustServerCertificate` option also relates to security.
   - When set to true, your application will trust the server's SSL certificate without validation. Use this cautiously, as it bypasses certificate validation checks.

4. **Connection Timeout**:
   - The `connectionTimeout` parameter specifies the maximum time (in seconds) that your application will wait while attempting to establish a connection to Synapse.
   - If the connection cannot be established within this timeframe, an error will be raised.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config-def.md" /%}

#### Advanced Configuration

{% codeInfo srNumber=6 %}

**Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=7 %}

**Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to database during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.

- In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`

{% /codeInfo %}

{% /codeInfoContainer %}

{% codeBlock fileName="filename.yaml" %}

```yaml {% isCodeBlock=true %}
source:
  type: synapse
  serviceName: local_synapse
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Synapse
```
```yaml {% srNumber=1 %}
      username: username
```
```yaml {% srNumber=2 %}
      password: password
```
```yaml {% srNumber=3 %}
      hostPort: hostPort
```
```yaml {% srNumber=4 %}
      # database: database_name
```
```yaml {% srNumber=5 %}
      # driver: ODBC Driver 18 for SQL Server (default)
```
```yaml {% srNumber=8 %}
      # authenticationMode:
      #   authentication: ActiveDirectoryPassword #ActiveDirectoryIntegrated
      #   encrypt: true
      #   trustServerCertificate: false
      #   connectionTimeout: 130
```
```yaml {% srNumber=6 %}
      connectionOptions:
        key: value
```
```yaml {% srNumber=7 %}
      # connectionArguments:
      #   key: value
```

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/database/source-config.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config.md" /%}

{% /codeBlock %}

{% /codePreview %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-cli.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-profiler.md" variables={connector: "synapse"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/auto-classification.md" variables={connector: "synapse"} /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/data-quality.md" /%}

## dbt Integration

{% tilesContainer %}

{% tile
  icon="mediation"
  title="dbt Integration"
  description="Learn more about how to ingest dbt models' definitions and their lineage."
  link="/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt" /%}

{% /tilesContainer %}

## Related

{% tilesContainer %}

{% tile
   icon="mediation"
   title="Configure Ingestion Externally"
   description="Deploy, configure, and manage the ingestion workflows externally."
   link="/deployment/ingestion"
 / %}

{% /tilesContainer %}
