content/connectors/search/elasticsearch/yaml.md, before:

---
title: Run the Elasticsearch Connector Externally
slug: /connectors/search/elasticsearch/yaml
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="Elasticsearch"
stage="PROD"
platform="OpenMetadata"
availableFeatures=["Search Indexes", "Sample Data"]
unavailableFeatures=[]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Elasticsearch connector.

Configure and schedule Elasticsearch metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/external-ingestion-deployment.md" /%}

## Requirements

We support Elasticsearch 7.0 and above.

We extract Elasticsearch's metadata by using its [API](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rest-apis.html). To run this ingestion, you just need a user with permissions to the ElasticSearch instance.

### Python Requirements

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/python-requirements.md" /%}

To run the Elasticsearch ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[elasticsearch]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/search/elasticSearchConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to ElasticSearch.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Elasticsearch:

{% codePreview %}

{% codeInfoContainer %}

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

{% codeInfo srNumber=1 %}

**hostPort**: This parameter specifies the host and port of the Elasticsearch instance. This should be specified as a URI string in the format `http://hostname:port` or `https://hostname:port`. For example, you might set it to `https://localhost:9200`.

{% /codeInfo %}


{% codeInfo srNumber=2 %}
**Basic Authentication**

**username**: Username to connect to Elasticsearch required when Basic Authentication is enabled on Elasticsearch.
**password**: Password of the user account to connect with Elasticsearch.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=3 %}

**API Key Authentication**

**apiKey**:  API Key to connect to Elasticsearch required when API Key Authentication is enabled on Elasticsearch.
**apiKeyId**: Enter API Key ID In case of API Key Authentication if there is any API Key ID associated with the API Key, otherwise this field can be left blank or skipped.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=4 %}
- **sslConfig**:
    1. SSL Certificates By Path
    - caCertPath: This field specifies the path of CA certificate required for authentication.
    - clientCertPath: This field specifies the path of Clint certificate required for authentication.
    - privateKeyPath: This field specifies the path of Clint Key/Private Key required for authentication.
    
    2. SSL Certificates By Value
    - caCertValue: This field specifies the value of CA certificate required for authentication.
    - clientCertValue: This field specifies the value of Clint certificate required for authentication.
    - privateKeyValue: This field specifies the value of Clint Key/Private Key required for authentication.
    - stagingDir: This field specifies the path to temporary staging directory, where the certificates will be stored temporarily during the ingestion process, which will de deleted once the ingestion job is over.
    - when you are using this approach make sure you are passing the key in a correct format. If your certificate looks like this:
    ```
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    MII..
    MBQ...
    CgU..
    8Lt..
    ...
    h+4=
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    ```

    You will have to replace new lines with `\n` and the final value that you need to pass should look like this:

    ```
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMII..\nMBQ...\nCgU..\n8Lt..\n...\nh+4=\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n

{% /codeInfo %}


{% codeInfo srNumber=5 %}
**connectionTimeoutSecs**: Connection timeout configuration for communicating with Elasticsearch APIs.
{% /codeInfo %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/search/source-config-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config-def.md" /%}

{% /codeInfoContainer %}

{% codeBlock fileName="filename.yaml" %}

```yaml {% isCodeBlock=true %}
source:
  type: elasticsearch
  serviceName: elasticsearch_source
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: ElasticSearch
```
```yaml {% srNumber=1 %}
      hostPort: http://localhost:9200
```
```yaml {% srNumber=2 %}
      authType:
        username: elastic
        password: my_own_password
```
```yaml {% srNumber=3 %}
        # apiKeyId: <api key id>
        # apiKey: <api key>
```
```yaml {% srNumber=4 %}
      sslConfig:
        certificates:
          caCertPath: /path/to/http_ca.crt
          clientCertPath: /path/to/http_ca.crt
          privateKeyPath: /path/to/http_ca.crt

          # pass certificate values
          # caCertValue: -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n....\n.....\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n
          # clientCertValue: -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n....\n...-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n
          # privateKeyValue: -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\n....\n....\n-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\n
          # stagingDir: /tmp/stage
```
```yaml {% srNumber=5 %}
      connectionTimeoutSecs: 30
```

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/search/source-config.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config.md" /%}

{% /codeBlock %}

{% /codePreview %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-cli.md" /%}

Commit message:

See https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/commit/685fa91935b5fec46f3149bf84f9893486e33fb8 from refs/heads/main

content/connectors/search/elasticsearch/yaml.md, after:

---
title: Run the Elasticsearch Connector Externally
description: Use YAML to configure Elasticsearch metadata ingestion and track index schemas, mappings, and lineage paths.
slug: /connectors/search/elasticsearch/yaml
---

{% connectorDetailsHeader
name="Elasticsearch"
stage="PROD"
platform="OpenMetadata"
availableFeatures=["Search Indexes", "Sample Data"]
unavailableFeatures=[]
/ %}

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Elasticsearch connector.

Configure and schedule Elasticsearch metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/external-ingestion-deployment.md" /%}

## Requirements

We support Elasticsearch 7.0 and above.

We extract Elasticsearch's metadata by using its [API](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rest-apis.html). To run this ingestion, you just need a user with permissions to the ElasticSearch instance.

### Python Requirements

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/python-requirements.md" /%}

To run the Elasticsearch ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[elasticsearch]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/search/elasticSearchConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to ElasticSearch.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Elasticsearch:

{% codePreview %}

{% codeInfoContainer %}

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

{% codeInfo srNumber=1 %}

**hostPort**: This parameter specifies the host and port of the Elasticsearch instance. This should be specified as a URI string in the format `http://hostname:port` or `https://hostname:port`. For example, you might set it to `https://localhost:9200`.

{% /codeInfo %}


{% codeInfo srNumber=2 %}
**Basic Authentication**

**username**: Username to connect to Elasticsearch required when Basic Authentication is enabled on Elasticsearch.
**password**: Password of the user account to connect with Elasticsearch.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=3 %}

**API Key Authentication**

**apiKey**:  API Key to connect to Elasticsearch required when API Key Authentication is enabled on Elasticsearch.
**apiKeyId**: Enter API Key ID In case of API Key Authentication if there is any API Key ID associated with the API Key, otherwise this field can be left blank or skipped.

{% /codeInfo %}

{% codeInfo srNumber=4 %}
- **sslConfig**:
    1. SSL Certificates By Path
    - caCertPath: This field specifies the path of CA certificate required for authentication.
    - clientCertPath: This field specifies the path of Clint certificate required for authentication.
    - privateKeyPath: This field specifies the path of Clint Key/Private Key required for authentication.
    
    2. SSL Certificates By Value
    - caCertValue: This field specifies the value of CA certificate required for authentication.
    - clientCertValue: This field specifies the value of Clint certificate required for authentication.
    - privateKeyValue: This field specifies the value of Clint Key/Private Key required for authentication.
    - stagingDir: This field specifies the path to temporary staging directory, where the certificates will be stored temporarily during the ingestion process, which will de deleted once the ingestion job is over.
    - when you are using this approach make sure you are passing the key in a correct format. If your certificate looks like this:
    ```
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    MII..
    MBQ...
    CgU..
    8Lt..
    ...
    h+4=
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    ```

    You will have to replace new lines with `\n` and the final value that you need to pass should look like this:

    ```
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMII..\nMBQ...\nCgU..\n8Lt..\n...\nh+4=\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n

{% /codeInfo %}


{% codeInfo srNumber=5 %}
**connectionTimeoutSecs**: Connection timeout configuration for communicating with Elasticsearch APIs.
{% /codeInfo %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/search/source-config-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink-def.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config-def.md" /%}

{% /codeInfoContainer %}

{% codeBlock fileName="filename.yaml" %}

```yaml {% isCodeBlock=true %}
source:
  type: elasticsearch
  serviceName: elasticsearch_source
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: ElasticSearch
```
```yaml {% srNumber=1 %}
      hostPort: http://localhost:9200
```
```yaml {% srNumber=2 %}
      authType:
        username: elastic
        password: my_own_password
```
```yaml {% srNumber=3 %}
        # apiKeyId: <api key id>
        # apiKey: <api key>
```
```yaml {% srNumber=4 %}
      sslConfig:
        certificates:
          caCertPath: /path/to/http_ca.crt
          clientCertPath: /path/to/http_ca.crt
          privateKeyPath: /path/to/http_ca.crt

          # pass certificate values
          # caCertValue: -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n....\n.....\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n
          # clientCertValue: -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n....\n...-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n
          # privateKeyValue: -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\n....\n....\n-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\n
          # stagingDir: /tmp/stage
```
```yaml {% srNumber=5 %}
      connectionTimeoutSecs: 30
```

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/search/source-config.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-sink.md" /%}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/workflow-config.md" /%}

{% /codeBlock %}

{% /codePreview %}

{% partial file="/v1.8/connectors/yaml/ingestion-cli.md" /%}
